What's for dinner tonight? We're having meatloaf tonight.
(Groan) Meatloaf again? When you finish school and you get a job and you're making your own money and paying your own bills
in your own house, that's when you get to decide what's for dinner.
(Papa bee runs)
OHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!
NOOOOOO!
What happened?
I had a nightmare that you were hitting "The Dab."
Hitting "The-?" (Sneeze) (Dab)
NOOOOOOO!
When I was just a little girl I
Asked my mother: What will I be? Will I be pretty? Will I be...
Mom! Dad is being weird again!
No i'm not!
Honey, I'm home. oh, where are you guys going? We're going to Grandma's house for sleepover. For the whole week!
I made your favorite dinner, your favorite dessert, and tonight... It's all about you!
(Music) yesssssssssssssssss
Honey, I'm home! Well, look who decided to grace us with his presence!
But, there was traffic- Traffic? Is that what they're calling it these days?
I have a fever. I'm going to bed. They're all yours.
I have a science project due tomorrow. Who's gonna take me to gymnastics today? Are you cooking today?
I'm starving. Someone stole my bike. I broke your computer and I-
Brother can you please make my bed? No, why would I do that make your own bed, please, please, please, please, please?
With sprinkles and rainbows and unicorns and princesses and princes knights and horses and ponies on top
please
NO
Really no huh do you know who I am
Do you know what happens to little boys who don't help their little sisters?
Oh well, remember kid sleep with one eye open tonight you hear me
What happened your daughters being scary again oh
She just wants cuddles. Don't be so dramatic isn't she just the cutest thing
You know you should be thankful to have a younger sister like her you should apologize to her
I just want to give my big brother hugs kisses and love . Oh
Give her what she wants
But she's not who you think she is!!!
Shhhhhhhhhhhh
I'm so glad your family could come over. Thank you so much for having us
Oh, so sorry it took so long you know with the kids schedules and everything we're so happy that we finally found a day
So we could come over to see you. Oh, yeah, we totally understand, so what's new with the kids
Well the kids have been busy. We've been learning new languages languages like more than one actually
24 languages really
We want them to be prepared for wherever we go that they can communicate with the people there
24 yeah
Languages, oh yeah, oh and my son, yeah
He's not gonna breathe underwater now. How what oh yeah that takes most of our Wednesday nights?
It's kind of a Navy SEAL training for kids. You know really that exists
Oh, yeah, yeah that exists you never know when they're gonna need it. Well. What do you do on Saturdays? Oh?
Saturdays martial arts all day they've learned ninjutsu
jiu-jitsu the karate a Taekwondo and Krav Maga
Benjamin
Amelia please come darlings Oh
Benjamin Amelia, yes ready
Go ahead punch her in the gut no. I insist no punch her in the gut
There you go come on let's go
The kids cook the most wonderful meals like duck confit
Really, it's all glue friggin glue freakin gluten-free and vegan
It's a new word. He's invented even the duck even the duck
So what do they do in their spare time in their spare time they play instruments?
Our kids play instruments too. Oh is that so what instruments do they play kids?
Wow I guess the playdate with Benjamin and Amelia is going well
I have 3 ponys and a pet tiger
wow
my parents own 37 cars
good for you
i have 3 bedrooms
nice
Do you know how to bungee jump?
Well, I did since I was six months old
Do you know how to do a front flip back flip and front walkover in gymnastics?
Nope. Do you know how to play the piano?
No what I do do you know how to do yoga?
Know what I do I have my own private classes. Do you know how to golf?
No, okay, but well my dad is he taught me when I was four do. You know how to do martial arts?
Well I do
Don't even think about it
You
Wow those pizzas really Wow do you ever stop talking?
Are you okay little Timmy made fun of me and pushed me to the ground he pushed you to the ground that's it be careful
He hit puberty faster than all of us
Your little Timmy yeah, what do they feed you are you bullying my son yelled man, well stay away from my son
Your mother and I are very concerned about you you need to be nicer to your brother. I don't know what you're talking about really
stop treating your brother like a servant I
Don't do that
Come on. Let's go
Hi
So everything is good there. Oh, don't worry about us. You guys have a great time
Are you being nice to me or not? We're not everything is good here
Are you helping them? Oh?
Yeah, don't worry. We're being
Amazing to a winner a widow, and we're helping them so much
I'm so glad to hear we miss you and we'll see you soon. We love you. We love you
We'll be back by midnight
Don't worry ladies we got this
Yeah, we heard about you clowns running around town scaring everybody
Yeah, that's not cool, man. That's not cool
It's not cool to scare kids. It's not even Halloween yet come on and don't you have anything better to do with your time oh?
wow
All right later clown punk see I told you the boys would handle this
Did you do that yeah, it sounds like a chicken
Who used all the hot water my shower was freezing really?
That's a shame ours was nice and hot
Hey getting water all over the floors
Ah
I need this cuz I'm gonna make them musically I
Thought I told you to clean your room, I thought mom told you to shovel the snow
Don't worry I have a plan
Sleepwalking, let's get you back to bed
This is all the dream. You're sleepwalking. This is not real. This is all the truth
Thanks for watching everybody, please like subscribe and leave a comment down below if you've haven't subscribed yet
Please click on the icon on the left and a little theme will pop up and use it to subscribe if you already have
subscribed, please forget everything that I have just said
It's my radio voice
Bye                                             love you eh bee family - a fan
