 
You programmed your robot to shoot?  Oh, crazy robot
I'm gonna wear glasses like this from now on, new Style. It's the new style!
What do you think? I just shot you and I think you just like...
Luda! It’s very cute, it keeps shooting me though. I don’t kno... oh
It's become more advanced and aware. No!!
This robot has now evolved and has a gopro attached to it and can see me
Oh, ouch! I don't like where this is going
laughing Karaoke phone kids classic
The nice boat does you know why you know why good nice boat?
Like butch look at that. Good look at my foot nice bush. Did you know I what?
Nice boys, do it. Hey
man
Cool shoes. I guess I have to wear my cool shoes and what do we say about that guys?
I was good everybody's got my foot dirt. We're being positive
So what are those what it negative clearancing?
But if you say nice, do it you appreciate you find something that you go nice with the positive I made the kale
It's good. It has lemon mint salt and oil and hey we don't have a dog oh
Well chase the secrets of secret the secret. Hey
Guys, thank you for the dessert amazing good job. This is incredible. Oh, my goodness wow. Thank you guys
Good morning. I think the monkeys are preparing breakfast for us today. Oh
There they are good morning
Nice monkey very nice move everybody's monkeys very nice
The smells coming out of his kitchen. Do not let me see
the Table Maurice you
But but but look at how glamorous you it is time
Wow
What do you mean when you're older you're a great yeah? Yeah, you're a great chef now
Will I be a great chef when I'm older you are incredible guys fantastic chef wow?
What you doing? What did your hair? Do so your new style? Okay? That afro knee afro knee tale?
The front pony. Oh my goodness eunuch ale ah oh boy
the anxiety kicking in yet, whoo
That's okay. We'll do this together. Okay, miss monkey is coming. We're going to show her. That's fine
How do you think she's going to react?
catering meant to grip that ability
Hello darkness my old friend. I've
Come to talk with you again
Because a Vision softly creeping left
Its seeds while I was sleeping
panama panama stop that in every
Animal maybe you are Velu Wonderful
animal
and
What I and swirl
million slime, I am one I am
Okay, I'll have my phone back, so I started to cook this morning, but you took over
He was like cooking the thank you john look. This is this - Brett
What is it look at look at that with that? What is this? Oh?
Great okay, so now you're making it all
Wow
I'm very proud of you
I don't have wi-Fi head however has the biggest wi-Fi head that like his hair goes in between the lines
Oh, yeah, you're right. You're right
Next to three feet you'll never cut it as a hairstylist if you talk like that. There's no
Gray Sideburns, Washington doesn't make a noise if you slap it. Oh
I don't know stay update anything today does nothing
you have both prepared unbelievable visuals for us today, the
presentation the Flavor the consistency cooked to perfection
You have really made this decision hard for us and so for that reason you
Both win yay
Well, thank you monkey. You shadow. Thank you, but I'm not taking murray
Hey, everybody. This is murray, and I think this is the oldest looking baby. I've ever seen in my entire life hello. No, no, thanks
We should take Mary home. Oh
We should take hello wow so many special treats tonight. We got murray the old baby. Hello
We need you I see him murray. No no murray. Oh
Careful careful with murray no no punching murray
oh
All right, let's put Murray down a fret nightmares
Good nice stuff leopard print suit you got to do like poppies collar. I am not taking them home
Thank you, and keep them right here. Okay. Whatever you do. Do. Not spray Mama
Whatever you do. Do, not spray Mama
It's refreshing isn't it hey do not spray Mama. Oh
Okay
Sure, don't shoot him that's oh, honey
Joey show us Joey
wait
It's a creepy joke
Thanks for watching everybody, please like subscribe and leave a comment down below if you haven't subscribe yet
Please click on the icon on the left and a little thing will pop up and use it to subscribe if you already have subscribed
Please forget everything that I have just said
Is my radio board?
right
