oh did i sit on something?
On your head
We're dressed the same oh, we're all blessed. Oh my guys. Why do we look  we should be in a Jay-Z video 
*music plays (From Jay-Z)*
 our new pet this is our new pet right here our new pet  more     does like the
*Thinking About The Dog's Name*
New Key DVD the Yugi welcome to another episode of reading mean comments
*music plays* MEAN COMMENTS, MEAN COMMENTS. don't let it get to YOU!
Hey
we know how much you  love when we read the mean comments, so we're gonna do it again today, and
Boy, oh boy. Do I have some gems let me pull them out of the vault I got some good ones today
We had some good ones today guys all right
regardless of how stupid and  this is  wish my family was this close 
You guys are so dumb you suck at youtube go back where you belong go back where we belong?
Where's that? Vine?
right
shit 
family
here
Hello
Alright, let's go back to YouTube guys alright
I
Hate all  your videos the most boring is miss monkey and the boy freaking
losers if you don't know to
 videos stop don't make more videos all of your videos are boring wow
Now   poop.  a double yeah. Yeah, wow wow  purple one. Wow wow
Tell us how you  feel now are you so angry  be angry?
This person doesn't really know proper sense of representative structure
*laughing* Gammer!
Grammer! I'm sorry that we make you so angry
 actually heard a really good thing when I was in Jordan if you spot it you got it
It's not an amazing thing if you spotted you got it yeah, so for the people who hate
online or wherever
Usually when you spot something because you got it if you thought
goodness and people and happiness and joy and kindness because you also possess that so
If you think about it that deep knowledge, if  spotted you got it wow man slow clap
Why make your daughter so ugly faces question question question dislike
*singing fail music*
I think
 are half human half doe I want to be known for the person  unique and weird like be weird like it's
Okay, they're not alt ugly faces are called funny faces  weird faces
They're awesome faces if you're weird wish me we'll be together forever
slow clap slow clap I like so
oh
 it's just weird and don't even correct my spelling
Because that just makes you look bad
No, it doesn't no one correct my spelling because it is like you know what I'm going to hate on this and I probably have
Really bad grammar or spelling so just in case you better not hate on me because I hate you
Just don't tell me that. I'm not good at spelling can we take a moment of silence for public education and
teachers and schools all over the world moment of silence
grammar please
education education
I thought I
Feel that we don't try to post anything that gives you a bad feeling or that makes you sad or uncomfortable
we try to
Give you lots of fun while you're watching our videos
Nice. Look wow this is like Slow Clap Version
Okay
Tell your daughter to stop singing
It's stupid there goes a bigger winter tray like always the same old bread and roll
Doodleball morning, just the same things in the morning  we came to this provincial sound good morning back
Horsham is Chris
charming
But she doesn't know let him to chapter 
Yeah, I don't think she's not 
, sure sure
This family  so stupid the only reason they're famous there
They're famous is because they're suckers for money. 
probably
 out of school
Okay, first, okay
There are so many grammar mistakes on this comment
That is annoyed like I am to the point where I am just fed up there are three bears
There's as in someone else possession with an eye
there are
The one as in they are four with an apostrophe, and then there is their like there's a bike over there
No, no, no, they don't know they don't know the meaning for any of the dare. So they're famous
We never did this to become famous
 just wanted to make videos and have fun and share them with the world  you guys  them so that's that
Nothing more nothing less. We have fun, and we're not so good for money
I want to talk report or not. I friggin hate your stupid ugly famous Wanna kids who thinks they can 
For what is a mad?
Woman, what has he got if not himself?
then he has naught to say
nothing
He truly feels and not the words
of one who kneels
The record shows I took the blows
and it my
way
The thing here is whether you can sing or what you can't sing?
It doesn't matter as long as you have fun
And if it's something you love to do then do it just doesn't matter what other  think yeah,  what makes you happy
Yeah, you know what I think you're right. They are Wanna kids they want to sing
You ruined the whole song?
the Whole song
Well is the whole song oh
Wait, we all have 
We have these hole all we have below
And we also have a hole over okay. This is from froggy  spiders are cool, but your channel is leaving stupid
That's why I'm going to tell my dad to shut down this channel. He works at the YouTube company you believe
What are you talking about?
Got it
There's the stupid family on YouTube. Can you still make them?
Still we go discover so annoying a so cringy
Just done it
did I
think your daughter needs to learn some manners burping like that after drinking coke  think you need to learn how to
spell *talking and burping at the same time*
OUTRO TIME
Thanks for watching everybody, please do like driving
  comment down below if you haven't  yet
Please click on the icon on the left and a little thing will pop up and use it subscribe if you already have subscribed please
Forget everything that I have just said
(I don't know that to put here)
Random Person: Is my radio board? Another Random Person: no, it's not.
okay, AND...
...bye
*end of video*
