Put out your fist.
I didn't say push back, why you pushing back so hard?
Oh, true. You didn't.
Because that's human nature.
What do you think is your greatest 
competitive advantage right now?
Where do you think you are in
the lifecycle of your business?
Most people's plans don't get implemented because
they're too complex. I always tell people
complexity is the enemy of execution. 
Tell me who your ideal client is right now.
Sure. Our competitive advantage is simple: 
supply chain.
How are you doing, Michelle?
Michelle: So good
Tony: Good to see you.
Michelle: Thank you.
I'm Michelle Cordeiro Grant, 
founder and CEO of Live.ly.
What we sell are bras and undies and swimwear today,
but adjacency products will be coming tomorrow.
Tony: I'm a big believer in rip open the plan that
you're gonna do, but I always have that back-up plan.
Michelle: We started with an amazing conversation,
talking through the business, talking
through the strategy, me as a leader and so forth.
Tony: I have zero question about your
ability to succeed because if you take
away all the skills, you have that much
drive and hunger, you'll figure it out.
Michelle: It was nice that he kind of took a moment
to acknowledge that you're gonna do this
no matter what, but it's really how you do this 
that's gonna be game-changing in your personal life.
Tony: My only piece for you
is taking care of you so that this
journey you don't look back and have regrets, right? 
Michelle: Right
Tony: And the place that you have regret will probably not be in the business, it will be in your personal life.
Michelle: His approach is personal and it's
tailored, which i think is amazing.
I think that's why he's so effective because he customizes to whoever he's interacting with.
Tony: I have no question she can succeed in business. My concern was I could feel that
below that, there's this
lack of fulfillment and enjoyment even
though she's busting her tail and my
goal in life is not only help people achieve more.
My goal is helping people have life
on their terms.
Tell me, what are you gonna go back with
and tell me what questions you might have 
or how I might be able to help.
Michelle: Quite frankly, when I
started the week, I thought I was gonna
be asking him more for business advice,
but as I kind of went through the course
of the journey it changed, because I
really embrace what he says about it
being 80% psychology and 20%, you know,
operations and so I started to lean into that.
Tony: Imagine there's a set of archetypes.
Michelle: Okay.
Tony: A warrior archetype, 
which clearly you have within you.
I'm gonna break through this. I'm
gonna make this thing happen, right?
But the warrior is the one that will go do
battle. The warrior is fearless.
The warrior will just push through. 
Michelle: Yeah.
Tony: I'm gonna ask you to stand up with me just
for a moment.
Michelle: Sure.
He told me to stand up. I'm
like, "Oh, boy. Here we go.
Where are we going? What are we doing?"
Tony: Can you relate to the warrior in you? 
Michelle: Yeah. Of course.
Tony: If you've got to instinctively say, "Where is the warrior in me?" Touch that part of your body, wherever that —
alright, here. Okay, good.
The warrior says, "Michelle, all you need to do now, all you need to remember,
all you need to know to grow the next level is and 
give me the first response and say,
"The warrior says, 'Michelle ...'"
Michelle: The warrior says, "Michelle, all I need to do
to get to the next level is focus."
Tony: She's a very independent sort, so instead of me giving advice, I wanted her to give the advice to her.
Let's try something different. There's a magician.
The magician can see the strategy nobody else sees. The magician has fun with stuff that
stresses out the warrior. Feel the quality
of the magician. What's the quality of
emotion different than the warrior? I'm
curious, can you feel the difference?
Michelle: Calm.
Tony: Yes. And that's the piece you're missing right now.
Michelle: I felt fortunate at the time, because I
knew that he was gonna be sharing with me a gift
that he gives to select
people and for him to take the time to
go there with me made me 
feel really, really blessed.
Tony: The lover in you. Where's the lover? Touch where the lover is.
Okay, good. And the lover is what you really are.
You're driven by love, even your customers, you're driven by love. It's very obvious.
Some people say that. You really are
that. It's where you get your energy.
It isn't just about business. It's about
love. She loves her clients. She wants to
see them have a beautiful life, and she's
so busy running around doing everything
that she kind of lost that connection, so
I want to bring that connection back.
As powerful as this woman is here and I
respect her immensely, this one with
tears in her eyes, she's the one who can penetrate
anyone. And you're being very vulnerable
right now, but you're being connected to
yourself and that feeling, that's what I
want for you on this journey.
I've done this for 40 years with you know tens of
millions of people from a hundred
countries so at this point I could be an
idiot and have to be able to notice there
are patterns that make people angry or
sad or frustrated. There are patterns
that make people passionate or grateful
or excited and when you
know what those patterns are and you see
what they are and you know what to do to
help people, just because I am you know I
got a lifetime's worth of experience.
You don't have to give up any of that drive 
 for you to have the quality of life you deserve
and your family deserves. See you soon.
Michelle: Thank you.
