♪ Musical Intro ♪
Hello friends and welcome to another video.
Today, we're going to be testing out questionable fashion hacks from Instagram videos.
Now, we've previously tested strange hacks from Facebook videos with mediocre success,
and then we also tested out some beauty hacks from Instagram videos
with just as middling results.
And since then, not only has the Instagram algorithm continued to place these short, strange,
minimally instructive "life hack" DIY videos on my explore page,
but I've also become more and more intrigued by them.
Specifically these clothing and fashion related hacks,
which seem uniquely peculiar, both in their scenarios
and also in the time and equipment you would need to do them.
They seem kind of hard.
As I mentioned in my last "hack" video, my biggest complaint with Instagram videos overall
is that there's no progress bar.
So there's no ability to scrub, or partially rewind,
besides replaying the entire video every time.
There's also a culture of "freebooting", aka taking other people's videos and reposting them
to grow your own Instagram page.
Now I don't think that these fashion hacks are quite as traditionally "clickbaity" as the beauty videos were,
but as a sub-genre, they definitely prioritize shock value and animated emojis over helpfulness
I would say they all fall into a few different hack "families",
all of which have their own particular tropes.
First off: solving a common or uncommon clothing problem.
These are kind of like old school infomercial style,
like what you should do when your fly won't close,
or your skirt keeps riding up.
Secondly: temporary transformation hacks,
where you quickly pull, tie or fold an item of clothing to use as another item of clothing.
This category kind of makes the most sense to me,
because they seem the most time efficient,
but I doubt they actually turn out looking THIS good.
And finally, destructive or permanent transformation hacks,
where in you cut up, sew, glue or otherwise permanently modify an item of clothing
to decorate it or turn it into something else.
In particular, they like destroying bras and yoga pants,
which are on the whole, not cheap,
which always makes me wonder...
If you have the time and energy to cut up a pair of yoga pants,
and sew them into a halter top,
would it not be more cost efficient to just to buy a halter top?
I guess we'll find out.
Let's start hacking.
Alright.
So I think I'm gonna try and build an outfit with these hacks,
so first up we're gonna start off with the undergarments.
Alright. So this video was posted by this page called diy_hub_.
But from the looks of the page I would guess that this is a compilation account.
That's trying to get followers by reposting free-booted videos.
So, this video was probably posted from a bigger page, but we don't know which one,
because there's no credit.
So, the general premise of this hack is that you take some underwear or like boxer brief type things.
You cut them up and then it turns into a bralette, somehow.
This hack is like sandwiched amongst a bunch of other clothing hacks.
All of which are in the general destroying family.
In fact actually the first hack in the video is them destroying a bra and then later they create a much worse bra.
Or I guess we don't know that yet, but
T: How dare you question the hacker
S: But that one seemed like a legitimate underwire situation and this one is underwear.
Alright, so I got two pairs of underwear.
Because it wasn't super clear to me from the looks of the underwear that she uses if it's like men's boxer briefs or women's boxer briefs.
I'm gonna start off with the women's pair of underwear.
Just because maybe thinking about it this like extra hole is not ideal.
Even though I feel like these look more like the pair of boxers she was using.
Alright, so basically what she does is she folds the underwear in half and then she pins the fabric along this line.
And then she cuts from the crotch to like sort of halfway through the underwear and then she does la sharp turn like an L.
Tadaaa!
This doesn't look right.
T: Are we sure these aren't crotchless panties?
S: I think that to be honest the thing that's not gonna work is that I think that the legs of these boxer briefs are just to long.
So, it's gonna be more of like a capped sleeve bralette.
So, this is the bralette on. It actually doesn't look that bad.
T: I like it
S: It's a little bit like weirdly fitting around the arms, because the sleeves are like longer in the armpit than they should be.
If you can see this.
I think that you just need like the perfect pair of like boxer briefs that have like very little leg to give you that good bra strap.
So, I'm gonna have to try and either cut the legs off of this or/and try to do these fruit of the loom ones as well.
Alright, so this is the de-legged hanes bralette and here is this one.
With a bonus frontal pee-hole.
I'm gonna try both of these on, then we'll see which ones better and wear that one.
Alright, so these are the men's fruit of the loom boxers and I think that the strap is like much improved,
but the armpit flaccid fabric is still very present it's like if a bra had turkey neck.
And then this is our modified hanes bra.
Which definitely has less of a capped sleeve now, but unfortunately like there is gonna be just like some extra fabric around here.
but it's better than the fruit of the loom pair, so were gonna go with this one.
I think in general this hack does result in like something resembling a bralette
but I'm not sure that the bralettes that result in the end is good enough that you will actually really want to wear it
I can only forsee that this hack being used at a pinch
at a time and place that where it's wildly inappropiate to not wear a bra but totally okay to not wear underwear
like right now
you can't see my bottom half but you can see my top half
