Hi guys! In today's video, I'm going to be testing out some popular edible
slime recipes, and I really hope that you enjoy this video.
For method one, we're going to need some starbursts and I decided to use all
of the red ones just so it had a matching colour, and I popped
it into the microwave for 15 seconds before getting some icing sugar.
And you want to add this really gradually-- because you do not want this
to have a doughy texture, you really want this to be  a slime. And I did add this when it was hot,
but before going in and touching it with your
hands,  you need to leave it for at least an hour to cool down,
because sugar can stick to your hands and really burn you, so
I do recommend getting a parent to help you out with this.
And when it has cooled down like this, it may be a bit hard, so you may want
want to add some oil or some water just to loosen the mixture up,
but you just want to keep adding some icing sugar until it isn't
sticky anymore, and it makes a really nice, stretchy slime.
The next recipe isn't the best tasting one, but it's so cool
to play with, and it definitely is edible. So we're
going to need some cornflour or cornstarch if you live in America, and
I like to add some food colouring in this just so it's completely
edible, if you don't want to eat this then you can go ahead and add some paint,
and all you want to do is pour half a bowl of water over this, and
bear in mind I'm making a giant one this is literally
going to be 3 liters worth of this slime.  And you want to stir it
all in, and the first batch of cornstarch is normally
quite easy to stir in, because it just dissolves, but the more cornstarch
you add, the more thick the mixture will become. It will become a lot harder.
So what I recommend doing is just pushing the cornstarch under,
and then at a later stage is going in with your hands and breaking up all of
the lumps, but you just want to keep getting the cornstarch under
and trying to stir it in. After adding in the second
batch, I do recommend just taking it a bit slower, 'cause
otherwise the mixture can get really thick like this, 'cause I added
a bit too much cornstarch, and I needed to go in and start over
and add some more water. I needed to go in and break it up with
emy hand which became quite messy, but again
this just helps the texture get a bit better, and you just want to keep
adding cornstarch  again until it becomes thick. And
as you can see there, it became a bit too thin, so I added a tiny bit
more, and as you can see it's made all of the difference, the tiniest
bit makes it super thick, so do not rush this method, and you're
'gonna be left with a really cool slime, and I don't recommend
eating lots of this, normally it's used to thicken up gravy, but you
can have like a teaspoon worth, I just wouldn't recommend a whole bowl.
 
Last but not least we have a slime that really surprised me, and was
so stretchy, even when it cooled down, and this is made out of Haribo
gummy bears, and I just added the whole pack of this, and this really didn't
take a long time to melt, I think it was about 10-15
seconds in the microwave on top heat. The mixture was so sticky
so I went ahead and added a whole tablespoon of icing sugar
to start off with, and the mixture kind of looked like caramel, it was
so sticky, and it was just such a nice texture, and it wasn't
an ugly colour either which I was really surprised with because all of
colours were mixed together. So I just kept adding
my icing sugar really gradually, and eventually it was losing it's stick,
a bit. I was really worried that when I started playing with it, it would become like a
dough, so I started adding it gradually with my hands and playing with it, and it
became such a nice texture, and was so, so strechy.
I really hope that you enjoyed this video, and if you did don't forget to give it a thumbs-up,
and I'll see you next week. 😘😘 {Subtitles by Anna Hubbard}
