Good Morning. My name is Maryuris
Mosquera Palacio
We are here today with Mrs.
Zenaida Di Martin
from the organization, of the association?
legal representative of the association
Community Councils Bajo Atrato, ASCOBA.
Zenaida, today we would like
you tell us a little about
the history of the municipality of Riosucio, Chocó.
It's a very traditional municipality that has
various festivities. It is a town that has always been on the banks of the Atrato
It has some ancestral customs which it has inherited and the historical review
of Riosucio is its tradition.
What do you do here in the municipality of Riosucio, Choco?
Well, in the municipality of Riosucio ... I was displaced since 1997.
From then I engaged in social work. Since before I was displaced, I worked in social work
because I was a foster mother of my community and came here as a foster mother
and then I retired from being a foster mother to work in social work
social work with displaced women and not displaced women, but I have always worked for people.
Zenaida, I would love if you could explain to us what forced displacement is?
Well forced displacement is when you are in your territory and people acting on the margins
of the law (outlaws) create conflict, and you have to move
some are killed, and others have a chance to run.
So a forced displacement
is just that. It was not in my plan for
move from my home
so for that reason we are still being exiled by that forced displacement
that happened in 97, from 95 to 97, it was very harsh and the displacement continues
exhaustive mass displacement.
What is a victim? What does it mean to be a victim of the armed conflict?
Well, a person is a victim of armed conflict not only because someone has been murdered.
There are eight classes of victim: forced displacement;
kidnapping; death; forced disappearance; forced recruitment;
minors.
All that, all that is becoming a victim of armed conflict
because all that comes from the influence within the disputed territory
a territory that belongs to us but they
are surrounding.
What are the main problems you have in the municipality of Riosucio, Choco?
And what has caused more - generated more problems here in the municipality?
Well, I think the problem we can not ignore is the displacement
Riosucio is a receptor municipality of all communities who have been displaced
from their territories. And the other main  problem at the moment:
the issue of landmines, which are affecting all of the
territory of Bajo Atrato.
We also desplaza--we have
a harsh trend of youth gangs through the people who use drugs, drug addiction
and that also begun through displacement and armed conflict.
All this has led to people being forcibly displaced
without understanding how to live or how to reach the municipality.
In 97, people were forcibly displaced in a "massive" forced displacement, as we say
but before that,  in '94, '95, '96, many people had already been displaced. People who
had been threatened and have had to leave their territory, but the massive one was in '97.
Where was that?
Throughout Bajo Atrato, throughout Bajo Atrato people were displaced: Salaquí; Truandó;
La Larga; Pedegiuta; Carmen del Darién. Everything, all of Bajo Atrato.
We thought we were going to live in peace
but I think right now we are suffering the same problems
forced displacement, not being able to go in either direction
because the persecutions of different armed groups.
I think we are alive and we can speak up more
that we have not adapted is another thing but do not want -- we are not in
our home with the things that we need.
But as I understand, Zenaida, this year, in March this year there was a
displacement here in the municipality of
Riosucio, Chocó in the Truandó basin. Is that true?
Yes, that's true. I spoke of landmines for that reason fellow people
from Rio Truandó were displaced because the territory is mined. So that's why we say to us as
an organisation, the situation is more serious than last time. We can say that because last time
before, you could run, you could walk
through the territory but now people can not move
within the territory because there are landmines sown
and they have killed many.
 Moreno Cuesta and I live in the municipality of Riosucio.
I belong to the basin  of Truandó
I think we young people in the armed conflict employ a very important role
for the simple reason of being
young people
and I think since the '97
that really was *the* displacement here in our municipality, we were presented with many things.
many young things took up arms
many young people at this time right now
that took that issue [of pop-- 
seething, disagreeing]
I think there are young people who have returned to civilian life or at this point you have
said "no more war" and most
It is important that young people can
play and take the time and
really this war that has caused us
so much harm to us as young people
we can be enjoy that we have the
freedom of moving somewhere where really fear doesn't represent a threat.
Being young means consuming peace
have a freedom to express what one feels, accomplish opportunities wherever we are
and that the young person can really take advantage of all opportunities that are available
whether on an national or international level.
As I say the first displacement
that hit me and that I was aware of and carry, so to speak
Was the displacement '96-'97 was the shift in where, fortunately, if I can use that word
I was able to escape the wolf's mouth. There were many clashes between
between the state security forces and armed groups outside the law
what was then FARC and paramilitaries but that scenario...I lived in a nightmare
We were displaced with our
family for the municipality Turbo
hoping that the war would end.
I think living in that displacement...I don't know
for me, I do not wish it on anyone because we lived something inhumane where
We had friends that the FARC took and some were recruited
some were useful to FARC and served at the frontlines or if they weren't useful to FARC, they were killed.
For me, to live through this displacement and everything my parents told me about it
that I had forgotten was something I would not wish on anyone.
I think ... in my 29 years, everything that happened in the municipality Riosucio, my community
has led to a bittersweet moment because there comes a time we are within our community but
displacement continues, even right now.
For me, as a young person, that lasting stability first begins when there
is a countryside without life, there needs to be a countryside where we can sow and harvest freely
where there really is opportunity and that nothing
holds us back like what is happening to us right now
like what is in the countryside, illegal groups and I think
that as young people we are experiencing anxiety because if
there really is no chance to reap freely within your community
as there is opportunity for us to say we will not go to war
because I can not speak a
peace process if there is really no
peace where where where poor people--
us small farmers
cultivate the field because as the saying goes, without the country there's no city
if we do not sow anything, the rich cannot eat, because they eat
what we grow. I think I need as a young person, a field within this displacement
of what we have experienced we need a free countryside where there are 
where there is transparency and honesty where there is no  but opportunity
for the farmer and for us.
Good morning, my name is Chidi Valencia  from the community of  and now
I'm going to sing a song called
Supe Que Me Amaba
From the beginning when I needed you
From the moment when the look lifted
Since that day when you found me alone
When your gaze landed on me
I knew you loved me I understood,
And I knew you were looking over me
I waited a long time and I did not, no, no
I knew you loved me, although I fled
I went far from your house
And with a kiss and love
You gave me your mercy, I'm here
And when I was away, I felt
I knew that you take care of me, and i heard you
Your voice in the silence was like a whisper
Every day brought me to you
I knew you loved me, I understood
I knew you were looking over me
Although you waited a long time for me and I did not arrive, no, no
I knew you loved me, although I fled
I went far from your house
And with a kiss and love
You gave me you forgiveness
I'm here
And I'm here My Sweet Lord
I'm here my dear Savior
I'm here
I'm here.
Here we find the talents of
our young people in the municipality of Riosucio, Chocó.
