Puerto Ricans emerged from their homes today
to find an island utterly devastated
by Hurricane Maria.
Maria is just the latest in a nasty string of hurricanes
that suggest that deadly storms are
hitting with more frequency and power.
But scientists have upped their game, too:
with a new satellite called GOES-16
that produces the most detailed
hurricane images ever recorded.
VICE News spoke to Mike Stringer,
the NOAA engineer who runs the program.
— GOES-16 is better than the legacy satellites
that are up there previously,
because it has three times the spectral resolution—
in other words, the number of color bands it can see.
It has four times the resolution as the legacy satellites
and five times the refresh rate
of being able to take images.
Where are the old satellites,
they could do a mesoscale,
but they had to stop doing everything else.
So, we can do all of that at the same time.
We can look at the clouds and,
from one time step to the next,
see where that cloud is moving
and tell how the winds are.
Those winds can then be put in the models
and used to say how that hurricane’s going to move.
The other new instrument we have on the satellite
is a geostationary lightning mapper.
And so this sees all the lightning,
and scientists have done some analysis showing
that when that total lightning count jumps,
that’s usually a precursor indicator
that that storm is getting very severe
and could produce severe hail, possibly tornados.
Another feature that it allows us to do,
but we’re not as focused on right now
because of the hurricanes,
is to detect fires.
We can see fires in hot spots around the country
and we’ve been able to look at the heat patterns change
and follow that direction of that front moving through.
In the last about five years, on average,
there’s been 10 billion-dollar weather-related disasters.
This year, before Harvey,
I believe the number had been seven already.
The estimates on Harvey are tens of billions,
or even maybe a hundred billion.
So, by creating these programs
and getting the satellites up
and be able to get the information
out quicker to people,
they’ll be able to protect themselves.
And depending on what the type of event it is,
they may even be able to protect their property.
