The U.N. estimates that 2.5 billion people
do not have access to proper toilets or latrines
with
one billion of those people having to defecate
in the open. That is 14% of the human population.
India has over 626 million people who are
forced to practice open defecation, followed
by
Indonesia, Pakistan and Ethiopia. And this
problem is bigger than being an inconvenience
or
discomfort.
According to the United Nations, almost a
million children under the age of 5 die every
year
from illness directly related to feces contaminated
wat er. Tack on the fact that 80% of diseases
and one third of all deaths in developing
countries can be traced back to contaminated
water,
and it’s no wonder why the U.N. is calling
for updated toilets that can isolate and sanitize
waste.
Preventing feces from getting into the water
and soil will not only improve the health
of hundreds
of millions of people, but would save countries
a combined $260 billion dollars per year.
This
high number comes from health care costs,
lack of tourism and money loss due to people
calling in sick or spending too much time
finding a place to go. For example, people
in Kenya
spend an estimated 2.5 days per year trying
to find a place to use the bathroom.
The negative effect of open defecation on
women is another huge problem. Women living
in
communities where they are forced to leave
their house at night to use the bathroom increases
the risk of sexual assault and violence. Also,
the lack of privacy offered by having to use
the
bathroom outside has led to girls dropping
out of school once they hit puberty. One study
found
that 23% of girls in India dropout of school
as a direct result of the lack of private
bathroom
facilities they need in order address their
menstrual cycle.
So, what is being done about it? Actually
a lot. The United Nations has sponsored World
Toilet Day to help raise awareness, this included
installing a giant inflatable toilet in front
of the
United Nations building in New York. Other
organizations have formed to help join in
the fight,
including the Toilet Board Coalition, which
brings together businesses, experts and non-profits.
And one Indian village took matters into their
own hands. A group of women wake up early
and
greet people on their way to the field to
relieve themselves, taking away the illusion
of= privacy.
They also hope that a friendly hello and a
quick chat about open defecation will shame
out of
doing that activity in the future. It appears
that their tactics are working, as 90% of
the village
now has individual toilets.
If you’d like to learn more about the work
of the United Nations, check out our video
on how
much influence 
they really have. And please subscribe. We
release 6 new videos a week and
subscribing if the best way to make sure you
see them. Thanks for watching.
