A woman suffering from terminal brain cancer
recently moved to Oregon to take advantage
of
Oregon’s Death With Dignity Act. The law
allows terminal patients to voluntarily end
their lives
by a self-administered, lethal dose of physician-prescribed
medication. She had to move to
Oregon because most states don’t allow assisted
suicide or euthanasia. Which brings up the
question: Where are terminally ill people
legally allowed to take their own lives?
First off, there are a couple things we should
define. Euthanasia is when a physician
administers a terminal dose of medication
with the exact purpose of ending a patient’s
life.
Assisted suicide is when a physician prescribes
a terminal dose of medication for the patient
to
administer themselves. And Passive Euthanasia
is when a physician withdraws treatment from
a terminal patient allowing them to die naturally.
These terms are important to note because
they affect how you are legally allowed to
die around the world.
Assisted suicide is officially legal in three
US States and legal by precedent in two others;
Oregon, Washington and Vermont each passed
Death With Dignity Acts that allow their
physicians to prescribe lethal doses to terminally
ill patients within some general guidelines.
The
patient has to give two verbal requests and
one written request. The also have to be at
least
18, a resident of that state, and have a terminal
illness that two doctors agree will lead to
death
within six months.
Montana and New Mexico have not passed legislation,
but their courts have found that
physician assisted suicide is not against
the law.
Outside of the U.S., this varies. The Netherlands,
Belgium and Luxembourg allow euthanasia.
Physicians can administer a lethal dose to
terminally ill patients. Switzerland allows
legally
assisted suicide. Physician there can prescribe
but not administer a lethal dose. Switzerland
also has relatively relaxed restrictions and
as such is a hot spot for suicide tourism.
Up to 200
people per year visit Switzerland to be legally
assisted with their suicide.
Passive euthanasia is legal in Mexico, Ireland
and India. This means families can take a
loved
one off of life support or refuse further
treatments.
Many other countries are also faced with this
issue. There are physicians in places we haven’t
listed here helping terminally ill patients
end their lives. But the legality of their
actions is
unclear. With all of that said, it is worth
mentioning that in the vast majority of countries
doctors
will not participate in euthanization or assisted
suicide. It is either illegal in their country
or they
consider it opposition of their medical principles.
If you’d like to know more about right to
die and Why People are Going To Switzerland
specifically To Kill Themselves. Please check
out our episode of DNews on that subject.
And if you are new to this show or DNews,
please subscribe.
