Costa Rica has officially been named the happiest
place to live in the world by The Happy Planet
Index.
The study compiled data from 151 different
countries to measure where people are living
happy, sustainable lives.
So, exactly how does one measure happiness,
and does living happily really matter?
The HPI looks at three different factors to
determine if people are happy in a certain
country.
First, it looks at general well-being, by
studying a Gallup World Poll that uses the
“Ladder of Life” method.
The poll asks people to rate their life on
a scale of 0-10, with 0 being the worst possible
life and 10 being the best.
Denmark, Canada and Norway finished in the
top three with Togo coming in last.
Then they take that number and multiply it
by each country’s life expectancy using
data from a 2011 United Nations study.
Japan has the highest at nearly 84 years - almost
twice that of Sierra Leone, which has the
lowest life expectancy at only 47.8 years.
The study also factors in each country's ecological
footprint.
This statistic is important to the HPI because
it’s directly connected to the sustainability
of a country’s happiness - as a country
becomes more polluted and less able to produce
resources like food, the less likely it is
that they’ll have a good or long life.
To get their final scores, they take the Ladder
of Life average, multiplied by life expectancy,
and divide that by the ecological footprint.
So, that’s how Costa Rica, Vietnam, and
Colombia were named the happiest places in
the world to live.
But, is this an accurate assessment?
Are they happier than other nations?
Well, I guess it depends on how you define
happy.
The Organisation for Economic Cooperation
and Development declared Australia as the
happiest country, based on eleven different
statistics like education, personal security
and income.
A 2013 report by the UN listed Denmark at
the top, using GDP, life expectancy, and corruption
levels - among other things.
Or maybe you judge happiness on topics not
being covered, like homicide rates, unemployment
or gun rights.
See, that’s the problem with ranking countries
by happiness.
Happiness is subjective, and one that we may
not be able to accurately track across all
countries.
But that obviously isn’t going to stop anyone
from trying.
In fact, the UN thinks tracking happiness
is so important that they passed a resolution
on it in 2011, saying that countries now need
to start tracking happiness.
And as far as criteria for happiness goes,
the Happy Planet Index is pretty simple.
They asked people if they were happy, looked
at how long those people were potentially
going to live, and then divided that by how
sustainable their environment is.
If you feel those are three important qualifications
for being happy, then maybe it’s time to
pack your bags and move to Costa Rica.
