Ukraine is being accused by human rights groups
of using cluster bombs during their ongoing
conflict with pro-Russian separatists. They
deny using these weapons, but the accusation alone
bring up an interesting question. What weapons
aren’t you allowed to use in war? There are
numerous conventions that prohibit certain
weapons in war. Mainly, weapons that are seen as
having uncontrollable effects or causing unjustifiable
suffering.
The main treaty governing this is called the
Certain Conventional Weapons Convention
or CCW. It prohibits the use of Laser weapons
designed to blind people and non-detectable
fragment weapons. Both of these are prohibited
because they cause unjustifiable suffering.
Non-detectable fragment weapons produce shrapnel
that can not be detected using an X-ray
machine, making it very difficult for Doctors
to treat the injured.
The Protocols of the CCW
also prohibit some weapons because they have
an uncontrollable effect. Namely, Incendiary
weapons, Land mines, booby traps, and other
weapons that can be detonated by remote or
timer. All of these weapons are deemed uncontrollable.
And some of them, like landmines for
example, last long past the conflict, and
have been known to maim or kill innocent civilians
during peacetime.
In fact, landmines are a large enough problem
that in addition to the CCW there is also
The Ottawa Treaty, which not only bans mines,
but also calls for the destruction of current
mine stockpiles and the prohibition of their
production and transfer. Since the treaty became
international law in 1999, it’s estimated
that landmine casualties have gone down by
over 60%.
Then we get to cluster munitions, the same
weapons Ukraine is accused of using. In 2008,
the Convention on Cluster Munitions was adopted,
prohibiting use, production, transfer and
stockpiling of cluster bombs. This was enacted
because cluster bombs affect such a wide area
and can’t distinguish “between civilians
and combatants.” Also, like mines, many
cluster bombs
never detonate; leaving possibly lethal time
bombs long after wars have ended.
These treaties are far from perfect, and not
all nations have agreed to follow them;
for example, major world powers like the US,
Russia and China are not party to all of these
agreements. But despite that, countries, including
those we just listed, are allowing
these rules to inform how they conduct war.
And human rights groups and the UN are
using these treaties as grounds for condemning
misconduct.
Some of you are probably now wondering about
chemical weapons. We didn’t cover
those here, because we did an entire video
on just that subject. We’ll play a little bit
of that now. Click on the screen at anytime
or the link below, to see the rest of that video.
