Republican candidate Ted Cruz beat out Donald
Trump in Colorado for the 2016 Republican
nomination.
But while Cruz’s victory seemed clear, Trump
blasted the delegate results on Twitter, saying,
“the people of the great State of Colorado
never got to vote in the Republican Primary.”
In fact, although it is rare, Trump was absolutely
right.
Republicans of Colorado did not collectively
vote for Ted Cruz, yet he won every available
delegate.
So, how exactly did Ted Cruz win in Colorado
without any votes?
Well, the way Republican nominees are usually
chosen is that the Republican party of each
state holds a caucus, primary, or some other
venue for citizens to collectively vote.
Then, delegates vote in the national convention
in July, voting according to how their state
population voted.
There, delegates are considered “bound”
to representing their state’s preference,
and about 95% of Republican delegates are
bound.
In fact, the GOP made this representation
mandatory after the 2012 election.
That sounds pretty democratic, and similar
to how the electoral college works.
But to the Colorado GOP, this didn’t sound
great at all, especially as Donald Trump was
rising in the polls.
So to avoid allowing Colorado citizens the
option of voting for their candidate of choice,
the Colorado GOP cancelled the public vote
back in August of 2015.
Instead delegates were selected through a
series of local caucuses, ultimately awarding
Ted Cruz all of the state’s available delegates.
And Colorado isn’t the only state to do
this.
Similarly, North Dakota’s 25 delegates were
selected by party insiders, and the state
did not hold a public vote for the nomination.
Additionally, Wyoming and three US territories
also neglected to hold a public vote.
Trump and his supporters have loudly protested
what they view as a lack of representation.
One Trump fan in Colorado even set his Republican
registration on fire on YouTube, saying he
was quitting the Republican party.
So how can the Colorado GOP just ignore their
voters?
Well, this entirely stems from the fact that
both the Republican and Democratic National
Committees are private organizations.
Although they mimic democratic representation,
political parties can choose whomever they
want as a nominee, and don’t have to follow
the popular vote or even hold one.
Another tool the GOP has to stop Trump, besides
simply cancelling the popular vote, is to
force a brokered convention during the nomination.
If you’re curious to know what that is,
or how it can stop Trump, watch the video
at the top.
And if you want to learn more about the difference
between a primary and caucus check out this
video at the bottom.
Thanks for watching TestTube News, makes sure
to like and subscribe for new videos everyday.
