In February 2016, the US government ordered
the tech company, Apple, to create software
that could grant unauthorized access into
the iPhone.
The FBI has said this access would allow them
to investigate a suspect in the San Bernardino
terror attack.
But Apple’s CEO Tim Cook has refused, saying
that a backdoor to the iPhone could lead to
significant privacy concerns for its customers.
It is rare for a major company to defy the
federal government, so we wanted to know,
just how powerful is Apple?
Well, Apple is the world’s most valuable
publicly traded company.
In February 2015 it rose to be the first US
company worth more than $700 billion dollars,
about the same as the GDP of Saudi Arabia
Since 1976, Apple has manufactured and sold
personal computers, but they are now better
known for consumer electronics, including
phones, tablets, mp3 players and smartwatches.
Apple has sold more than 700 million iPhones
worldwide, and stand as the leading smartphone
retailer in the US.
But much of Apple’s financial success doesn’t
come from its quantity of sales, but rather
the amount spent on each device.
In fact, iPhones only count for roughly 14
percent of the global smartphone market.
Yet, Apple still makes more than half of the
total profits in that industry.
This, combined with the tight ecosystem of
their products, has given Apple an unusual
amount of brand loyalty.
In a 2015 survey of iPhone users, more than
83 percent of respondents said they planned
to stick with Apple for their next smartphone
purchase.
Apple product releases and store openings
are known to attract thousands of people,
some of whom wait for hours in line.
With such a widespread level of reach and
influence, any security breach on Apple products
has severe consequences.
This was demonstrated in 2014, when hundreds
of private photos of celebrities surfaced
online as the result of a suspected iCloud
hack.
This was not only devastating to those who
were involved, but it raised concern around
the security of services like iCloud, which
store mass amounts of private information.
In fact, later that same year, the company
revamped the level of encryption in their
mobile operating systems, preventing hackers,
governments, and even Apple themselves from
gaining access.
Tim Cook has long described digital privacy
as a human right, and has repeatedly moved
beyond his role as CEO, into the center of
high-stakes social and political issues.
As Apple devices have increasingly been able
to carry more personal data, they have been
forced to become more secure.
The most recent pushback on government intrusion
has shown that Apple is powerful enough to
stand up to even the FBI.
But how can Apple just deny access to the
government?
What does Tim Cook mean when he says they’re
unable to access phones produced by Apple?
How does encryption work?
Check out this DNews video to find out!
(sound up) Thanks for 
watching TestTube News, don’t forget to
like and subscribe for new videos every day!
