According to reports, Neo-Nazism is becoming
more popular and politically influential across
Europe, even gaining seats in some national
parliaments.
Germany has one of the largest neo-Nazi parties,
called the National Democratic Party,
or NPD. Just like the original Nazi party
in the 1920s and 30s, the NPD labels itself
“national
socialist” . A spokesperson for German Chancellor,
Angela Merkel,
called the NPD “anti-democratic, xenophobic,
anti-Semitic and ... a threat to the constitution.”
In
recent years, the NPD has gained a seat in
two out of the sixteen regional German parliaments
.
And in 2014, Udo Voigt holocaust denier and
former leader of the NPD,
joined the European Parliament as an elected
member . Officials in Germany have launched
a legal attempt to ban the party, as they’ve
done successfully in the past with two other
Nazi-
sympathizing political parties, but haven’t
found success yet.
Other European countries are also dealing
with this problem. In Greece, in 2014, the
“Golden
Dawn” party received over 9 percent of the
vote, gaining 3 seats in the European parliament.
In
Slovakia, in 2013, the former leader of a
banned neo-Nazi organization was elected governor
to
a large central region. And Russian President
Vladimir Putin remarked in 2014, that open
neo-
Nazism has “become commonplace in Latvia
and other Baltic states.”
So, what is causing the re-emergence of National
Socialism? Some experts think the rise of
nazi values is caused by a sudden influx of
immigrants. The New York Times notes that
ethnic
tensions have emerged in Germany because of
“demographic changes.” The International
Business Times finds that since 2013, a flood
of Syrian refugees have entered Bulgaria and
sparked anti-immigrant protests and attacks
there.
Others have linked the 2008 European recession
and high youth unemployment with the rise
of neo-Nazism. With around 20 to 50 percent
of young people unemployed in some nations,
the
neo-Nazi parties function as a gang or a cult
that recruits the young and the poor.
World leaders are watching the re-kindling
of neo-Nazism carefully and doing their best
to stem the tide. The fact is that Nazi salutes
and paraphernalia have been made illegal in
some places like Germany, but Nazis values
are unfortunately more difficult to regulate
than
paraphernalia. And as a result Nazism is still
alive, just under different names.
You know what would be the ultimate way to
troll this video? NOT putting pro Nazi
comments. Man would that show us. Thanks for
watching.
If you’d like to know more about Germany,
check out our video on the strength of the
German
nation. And subscribe. We release six new
videos every week.
