North Korea has the fifth largest active army
in the world and a history of erratic and
aggressive behavior. That includes this past
August, when they threatened to attack the
US with nuclear force. So, how seriously should
we take a threat like that? How powerful is
North Korea?
As I said, North Korea has the fifth largest
active military in the world, which should
not be taken lightly. They also have a huge
number of armaments -- an estimated 13,000
guns along their border with South Korea.
If they were to attack South Korea, or any
other nearby nation, they could inflict an
enormous amount of damage in a very short
period of time. They could also potentially
overwhelm those nations with sheer manpower.
In addition to the 690,000 to 1.1 million
active troops North Korea is rumored to have,
they may also have between 4.1 and up to 7.7
million soldiers in reserve. So, yes. They
are a legitimate threat. But... only to the
immediate surrounding nations, and only for
a short period of time.
North Korea’s air force and navy are extremely
outdated and under-used. According to experts,
they often don’t have enough fuel to keep
all of their planes operational, and consequently,
a lot of their pilots have little experience
actually flying. They have a large navy, but
it is the same problem there. Outdated technology
and not enough fuel. A prominent response
by a better equipped nation, like the United
States, would quickly outdo North Korea’s
main forces. Experts also argue that North
Korea would be incapable of sustaining a long
term war. The country is already struggling
with food and fuel shortages.
Some even speculate that with or without a
war, the current North Korean leadership may
not last. There are constantly rumors of impending
collapse or revolt. The central government
is widely perceived as being extremely corrupt,
draconian, and mismanaged. And the gap between
the people and their leaders is wide. A situation
that often ends in revolt or collapse. So,
yes North Korea is a threat, like a bomb or
a gun is a threat. But, they aren't the great
threat that a superpower would be, or even
a terrorist group could be, because North
Korea is an isolated nation that does not
export harmful ideals; like Al Qaeda does
now, or Soviet Russia did during the Cold
War.
This leaves us only one item left to discuss,
which is North Korea’s nuclear capabilities.
Do they have the bomb?
No, they do not have the bomb. They have the
materials to MAKE a bomb, but they are currently
unable to arm a warhead with those materials.
So, as of now, they can not launch a nuclear
strike. They can simply talk about it, which
isn’t particularly threatening.
To learn about some of the other big players
on the international stage, click here to
see how powerful Russia is. Or click on the
other box to find out how powerful China is.
New videos every day. Please subscribe.
