Hundreds of thousands of troops gathered near
the North Korean border as the United States
and South Korea held their largest ever joint
military exercise in early 2016. The two nations
hold these drills annually to test their preparedness
against an attack from North Korea. Besides
their shared disapproval for the North, South
Korea and the US don’t seem to have much
in common. So we wanted to know, why do the
US and South Korea love each other?
Well, South Korea and the US’s diplomatic
relationship stems back to the aftermath of
World War Two. At the time, the Korean peninsula
had recently split, and the UN refused to
recognize the North as a legitimate state.
In response, North Korea invaded the newly
formed South, and the US came to South Korea’s
defense. In 1954, following three years of
war, South Korea and the US created a “relationship
forged in blood”, in which the two countries
agreed to defend each other in the event of
an attack. Their alliance strengthened in
2008, when newly elected President Lee Myung-bak[Lee
- MYUHNG BAHK] toughened South Korea’s stance
toward the North. Myung-bak also had a strong
personal relationship with President Barack
Obama, who, in 2009 called South Korea “one
of America’s closest allies and greatest
friends”.
Additionally, in 2007 the two countries agreed
to a groundbreaking free trade agreement,
reducing taxes on exports and imports. Under
this treaty, bilateral trade is expected to
be duty free within the next decade. Thus
far it has increased their trade to over one
hundred billion dollars annually, with the
US primarily exporting meat and South Korea
selling cars and machinery.Today, the US is
South Korea’s second most important trading
partner, after China.
But North Korea’s volatility and potential
danger is the glue that holds these two countries
together. North Korea’s relationship with
South Korea has worsened considerably since
Myung-bak introduced his “Vision 3000”
plan in 2007, which aimed to funnel money
into the North in exchange for their denuclearization.
Pyongyang officials not only rejected this
proposal, they became even more aggressive
by firing missiles off their west coast and
holding their second nuclear test. Tensions
rose again in 2010, when North Korea allegedly
fired a torpedo at a South Korean warship,
killing nearly 50 people on board. In response,
the US strengthened its economic sanctions
on Pyongyang, and strengthened their military
partnership with South Korea. After another
alleged nuclear test from the North in January
2016, the US sent four thousand troops to
South Korea, reinforcing the nearly 30 thousand
already stationed there. Many of these troops
are stationed at the Demilitarized Zone, or
DMZ, which separates North and South Korea.
The US has attempted to create a peaceful
dialogue between North and South Korea not
only because it honors their military alliance,
but because it addresses the threat of North
Korea’s nuclear program.
Beyond trade and security, the US and South
Korea share mutually positive social relations.
According to the Pew Research Center, 84 percent
of South Koreans have a favorable view of
the US, a higher percentage than almost any
other country. Roughly 65 percent of Americans
feel similarly for South Koreans. These recent
large scale military exercises shows that
US and South Korea are as committed as ever
to combatting North Korea’s turbulent behavior.
The no-mans land between North and South Korea
is one of the most heavily militarized borders
in the world. Find out more about the DMZ
by watching this video up top. You can also
get a closer look at just how powerful South
Korea is by watching this video below. Thanks
for checking out Test Tube News, don’t forget
to like and subscribe for new videos every
day.
