On the second day of his presidency, Barack
Obama signed an executive order to close the
U.S. Detention Facility in Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba. But efforts to close the facility and
move terror suspects to prisons on US soil
have since been hampered by Republican opposition.
When Obama announced that he was still determined
to shut down the facility in February 2016,
concern over where Guantanamo prisoners would
be relocated to, arose once again. So we wanted
to know what happens to prisoners after they
leave Guantanamo?
Well, since Guantanamo Bay Prison opened on
January 11, 2002, it has detained roughly
780 prisoners, predominantly from the Middle
East. The prison is home to enemy combatants
captured by the US during the War on Terror,
including the suspected architect of the September
11th attacks, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.
As of January 2016, 91 detainees remain. About
half are still facing criminal charges, 35
have been approved for transfer out of the
prison, and ten are considered “unreleasable”.
According to the White House, these ten either
cannot yet be transferred to other countries
or they pose a continuing significant threat.
If Guantanamo were to close, some could potentially
be transferred to U.S. soil as per President
Obama’s most recent plan. This includes
13 potential supermax prisons and military
sites in states like South Carolina, Kansas
and Colorado. Some republican leaders have
suggested that Obama’s plan could threaten
the security of the United States.
So where have prisoner's been relocated to
in the past? There are reportedly 57 countries
to which detainees have been sent, with the
majority going to Afghanistan. Many are returned
to their home countries. Seven detainees were
repatriated to Russia, where Human Rights
Watch alleged they were tortured, beaten,
harassed, and given unfair trials. Others
have gone to countries like Canada, Sweden,
El Salvador, and two detainees were sent to
the United States to stand trial in US court.
Some detainees are transferred to terrorist
rehabilitation centers, in countries like
Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, featuring psychological
evaluation, medical care, exercise, and religious
counseling. These rehab centers are designed
to convert former jihadi terrorists, by using
Islamic teachings to abolish their extremist
ideologies.. Saudi officials claim that their
center has an 80% success rate for reforming
prisoners. However, of those prisoners who
were deported and not jailed, upon release,
it’s estimated that about one in six has
returned to terrorism.
President Obama said in his 2015 State of
the Union address that it costs $3 million
dollars a year, per prisoner to be held at
Guantanamo. Aside from the cost, the detention
center has also been the focus of worldwide
attention following years of allegedly inhumane
living conditions, government sanctioned torture,
and a lack of legal standing for the prisoners.
With less than 100 detainees remaining, Obama
may actually accomplish his goal of shutting
down the facility by the end of his term.
But when the options on the outside are rehabilitation,
imprisonment, death, or recidivism, it is
hard to say whether that’s truly a better
option than keeping it open.
The past decade and a half of war has contributed
to some of the worst human rights violations
in recent years, with the United States committing
its share of atrocities as well. Government
sanctioned torture has been a hot button issue,
and the CIA’s release of the Torture Report
has outlined the extent of the US’s involvement.
Find out why that really matters by watching
this video at the top. And, if you haven’t
already, be sure to check out our email newsletter.
Every week, you’ll get an assortment of
videos about science, current events, politics,
and more. To sign up, just click this box
or visit TestTube.com/fwd at the bottom. thanks
for watching Test Tube News don’t forget
to like and subscribe for new videos every
day!
