In February 2016, Iowa and New Hampshire will
receive huge media attention, as their residents
are the first to vote for the upcoming presidential
nominees.
In Iowa, results come from in-person events
called “caucuses”.
But in New Hampshire, the decision is the
result of a primary election.
What is the difference between a caucus and
a primary?
And how important are these in the general
election?
Well, a caucus is essentially a voting party
for presidential nominees, held at a designated
public space - like a school or a city center.
The term dates back to the early 1800s when
political leaders would meet to deliberate
over president and vice president nominations.
The word “caucus” is actually an Algonquian
term meaning a “gathering of tribal chiefs”.
But today, any registered voter can attend
a caucus.
In Iowa there are 99 caucuses, with anywhere
from 20 to 200 people expected at each meeting.
Caucus attendees discuss their party’s candidates
for several hours, then narrow down their
choices through an in-person voting process.
The votes are tallied on-site, and a statewide
winner is chosen later that same night.
Candidates who finish on top continue their
campaigns well into the election cycle, while
unpopular candidates usually drop out soon
after.
Republicans and Democrats hold separate caucuses,
and each has their own set of rules.
After opening remarks and discussion, Republicans
cast their votes on secret ballots, which
is similar to a general election.
Democrats, however, physically divide into
groups according to their preferred candidate,
then try to persuade others to join their
side.
After hours of back-and-forth, any group with
less than 15% of attendees is eliminated,
forcing those members to opt for one of the
remaining candidates.
The group with the most members determines
the winning candidate.
Caucuses were once the most common way for
states to choose presidential nominees.
However today, only 10 states hold caucuses.
The rest use primaries, which are almost indistinguishable
from the voting process in the general election.
Unlike caucuses, which are mass public meetings,
primaries rely on secret voting from polling
places and absentee ballots.
Different states hold different types of primaries,
but in general they come in two basic forms.
In an open primary, all registered voters
can vote for any candidate.
That means that in 2016 a registered republican
could vote for Bernie Sanders, or a Democrat
for Ted Cruz.
But in a closed primary, voters can only vote
for candidates in their affiliated party,
and independents have to change their party
affiliation to vote.
New Hampshire is neither closed nor open because
while independents are allowed to vote, registered
republicans and democrats must stick to their
party.
This is called a semi-closed primary.
Federal law doesn’t govern how states choose
their delegates, so states can decide whether
they want to hold caucuses or primaries.
Since 1970, the country has steadily moved
toward primaries, as they consistently yield
greater voter turnout and are widely considered
to be a fairer way of choosing delegates.
Because caucuses are funded by the political
parties themselves, whereas primary funds
come from the state, some states prefer caucuses
as they are cheaper.
Certain states have even switched back and
forth.
For instance, Colorado switched to caucuses
back in 2000 to save money, but considered
holding a primary for 2016.
Caucuses have historically benefitted certain
types of candidates over others, as they tend
to attract the most dedicated voters.
This can ultimately skew the outcome, because
average voters or those with time constraints
don’t usually take part in caucuses; while
they might be more likely to participate in
primaries.
But in the end, both elections carry equal
weight in the larger presidential race.
Caucus and primary results are heavily emphasized
in the media but often fail to accurately
predict who will win the presidential or even
the party seat.
So, why exactly does Iowa get to host the
first caucus in the country?
And what’s so important about that anyway?
To find out, check out our video, How Powerful
is Iowa?
(sound up) Thanks for watching TestTube News!
Don’t forget to like and subscribe for new
videos every day!
