Zimbabwe has a new leader for the first time
in over 37 years.
Emmerson Mnangagwa was sworn into office on
November 24th, 2017, becoming only the second
president in the country’s history since
it gained independence in 1980.
The former president resigned shortly after
the military rolled into the streets of the
nation’s capital.
So what led to this drastic shift in power,
and what lies ahead for Zimbabwe?
To understand how we got here, we first need
to examine who the old president was.
Robert Mugabe grew up in Southern Rhodesia,
a self-governing British colony that would
later become Zimbabwe.
He grew up during a time when Indians were
fighting for independence from its mutual
colonizer, Britain.
As a young man, Mugabe was inspired by leaders
like Gandhi and had even attended the same
univeristy of South African freedom fighter
Nelson Mandela.
That’s when he decided to enter into politics
and advocacy.
After spending a few year as a teacher abroad,
he returned to Southern Rhodesia in 1960 to
join the african nationalist movement.
After parting ways with the group, Mugabe
formed his own political party called the
Zimbabwe African National Union - Patriotic
Front, or more commonly referred to as Zanu-PF.
He was arrested, along with some of his political
allies, in 1963.
Magabe spent 11 years behind bars but continued
to communicate with his party members during
his time in prison.
After his release and a british-brokered peace
deal in 1979 that established the independent
state of Zimbabwe, Mugabe went on the win
national elections becoming the country’s
first leader.
But while he remained largely popular, he
began to give himself more power and changed
the constitution to make himself the “executive
president” in 1988 which led to his 37 year
rule.
But things reached a boiling point when Mugabe
dismissed his long time vice president Emmerson
Mnangagwa on November 6th, 2017.
This marked a shifting point in popular opinion
in Zimbabwe - because citizens saw the move
as a way for the 93 year old president to
clear the field for his wife, often referred
to as “Gucci Grace” to become president
after he stepped down or died.
Mugabe’s move angered not only tens of thousands
of citizens, but also his ruling party and
the military.
This lead to military intervention.
They rolled tanks into the streets of Harare,
on November 14, taking over government buildings,
state broadcasters, and even detained Mugabe,
forcing him to resign.
And while some may celebrate the removal of
the world’s longest-serving head of state
as a victory for democracy, the man who was
just sworn into office to take his place was
the former vice president who served by his
side for years.
The new president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, is
by no means a change candidate, but rather
Zanu-PF’s last ditch effort to continue
to hold onto power.
Mnangagwa, who is nicknamed “the crocodile”
for his ruthless political reputation and
involvement in some of the worst atrocities
to happen in Zimbabwe's history.
Especially a crackdown on political opponents
in the 1980s that left thousands dead.
And while Mnangagwa was only sworn into office
to serve until national elections are held
in early 2018, only time will tell whether
opposition voices will be given the proper
platform to openly and fairly campaign against
his Zanu-PF party or whether Mnangagwa will
live up to his reputation as a brutal leader.
Robert Mugabe started as a popular president,
but slowly transformed into the world’s
longest serving dictator.
But how do presidents become dictators?
Find out in this video to the right.
Thanks for watching NowThis World and as always
don’t forget to like and subscribe for more
episodes every week!
