In October 2017, a bombing in Somalia’s
capital of Mogadishu killed and injured hundreds
of people, in what’s been called the world’s
deadliest terror attack in recent years.
It was also the third terror attack in Mogadishu
in 2017, and at least the tenth bombing in
the past two years.
Somalia has experienced mass death and political
instability for decades, so why is the country
such a target for terrorism?
Well, since 1991, and the start of the Somali
Civil War, Somalia has wavered between being
a fragile and outright failed state.
When the government of Siad Barre was overthrown
by a military junta, which was the same way
Barre came to power in 1969, the country fell
into a power vacuum.
Warring factions, led by religious and regional
clans fought to establish control over their
local territories, displacing and killing
hundreds of thousands of civilians.
Most notable in this power struggle was the
rise of a group known as the Islamic Courts
Union.
Despite the best efforts of international
and neighboring states to establish a military
force and stable government in Somalia, the
ICU was able to capture and control a large
southern portion of the country.
In 2006, the capital Mogadishu fell to the
ICU, and the group quickly implemented their
version of Islamic Law.
Although by the end of that year, the ICU
were forced out of Mogadishu and disbanded
by the newly formed transitional government,
Somalia continued to spiral out of control.
In particular, an offshoot of the failed ICU
began gaining power and committing terror
attacks countrywide.
The group, called Al-Shabaab, has claimed
responsibility for multiple bombings, particularly
since 2012.
This al-Qaeda aligned Islamist group, named
after the Arabic word for “Youth” has
specifically targeted government institutions
and non-Muslims.
Al-Shabaab has sought to establish an Islamic
state within Somalia, not unlike ISIS or the
former ICU.
And while some sources report that the terror
group has lost ground since their formation
around 2008, they do still control major regions,
and have continued terrorizing the country.
In short, Somalia has seen a massive increase
in terrorist groups, and lawlessness since
the start of its civil war.
Al Shabaab represents only a small fraction
of the damage the country has undergone.
Without the support of neighboring countries,
which have seen violence spill past their
borders, Somalia would likely have no functioning
government at all.
With so many groups vying for control of an
impoverished and oppressed region, the terrorism
and turmoil Somali citizens have experienced
is unlikely to end anytime soon.
As Somalia continues to struggle with terrorism
and corruption, a region of the country is
still seeking independence.
Somaliland is in the northern-most part of
the of the east african country and has been
struggling for it own sovereign nation for
years now.
To find out what’s stopping Somaliland from
becoming its own country, check out this video.
Thanks for watching NowThis World, don’t
forget to like and subscribe for more episodes
like this every week!
