Evelyn: Hey Youtube World! It's me, Evelyn.
Hallease: And it's me Hallease behind the
camera. 
Evelyn: Hallease's face is like ...is
like...when you give your grandparents some
foolishness and they're just lookin' at it
like...
Evelyn: It's like if me and my brother got
donuts, and then were were like "Oooh! You
know what we should do? Put some Fruit Loops
on it!"
Evelyn: Are you ready?
Hallease: I'm ready.
Evelyn: Oreos come in a thing. So imagine
your house is like, really humid and you just left
them out instead of putting them back in the
pantry?
Hallease: Awww!
Evelyn: So they're like...
Hallease: Like, gooey?
Hallease: So I actually like this one.
Evelyn: It's better than the Fruit Loops.
Hallease: Yeah.
Hallease: They crumbled the Oreo a lot on
this half. I'm not getting that mushy thing?
Evelyn: Chewy?
Hallease: Yeah, it's just like, the glaze is chocolatey with the Oreos. It just tastes like just like Oreo glaze.
Evelyn: Cleanse the palate. Cleanse the palate.
Evelyn: It's so late y'all! Shoulda been in bed a long time ago.
Hallease: Here we have your basic glazed donut.
An oldie but goodie. I'm like a donut purist
a little bit. If it ain't broke, don't fix
it kinda thing.
Evelyn: Oooh! Look that smile! 
Hallease: Fluffy. Once again, a really good
dough. Very simple sugary glaze on top.
Hallease: Yo, this is better than HEB, man.
Evelyn: Shut your mouth!
Hallease: Quite possibly, man. Quite possibly.
This is like on par with HEB.
Evelyn: First you went from better than HEB,
to 
Hallease: Well now I'm like "Oh man, I can't
shade HEB!"
Evelyn: Here we have the piece de resistance.
I haven't reached any of the filling.
Hallease: Oh okay.
Evelyn: But I see it.
Evelyn: Flavor explosion I wasn't ready!
Evelyn: Whew!
Hallease: What's it giving you, Evelyn?
Evelyn: In terms of the flavor explosion inside?
Hallease: Mmmhm?
Evelyn: You know those  those candies
that your grandma always had that come in
a strawberry? 
Hallease: Yeah yeah yeah!
Evelyn: And when you bite it, you always forget
it's jelly inside? Until you bite it and you're
like "Ewwwgh! what's that!"
Evelyn: That's what this is giving me.
Evelyn: Would you...come here again?
Hallease: I'm not gonna like --
Evelyn: Drive...
Hallease: make the drive, find parking, and
come -- like I'm not -- and I'm sure as hell
ain't waitin' in line no donut, ya know?
Evelyn: I thought...judging from what I saw on like, The Food Network and The Travel Channel,
from the location in Portland, I thought it was gonna be like, artisanal?
Hallease: Yeah, this is giving me like...West
Campus white privilege?
Evelyn: All in all, swing through if you wanna
experience what you saw on The Travel Channel
that one time. Um, but it's not....don't feel
bad if you just can't find time in your schedule
to visit Voodoo Doughnut here in Austin, Texas.
You'll be fine. You'll be okay.
