you know how I always say like oh we had a whole show plan and we just threw it out I literally just threw out the show while I was in the makeup chair and if you know anything about me I don't spend all that much time in the makeup chair but I just a couple minutes before we're due to get in the air the New York Times has just published a remarkable document Michael Schmitt is the reporter at the New York Times the headline is molar has dozens of inquiries for Trump in broad quest on Russia ties and obstruction literally reading this off the post way off the New York Times website right now because they have just published it thank you jackie has just handed it to me Robert Muller the Special Counsel investigating Russia's election interference has at least four dozen questions on an exhaustive array of subjects that he wants that he wants to ask President Trump to learn more about Trump's ties to Russia and determine whether Trump obstructed the inquiry itself according to a list of the questions obtained by the New York Times the open-ended queries appeared to be an attempt to penetrate the president's thinking to get at the motivation behind some of his most combative Twitter posts and to examine his relationships with his family and his closest advisors they deal chiefly with the president's high profile firings of the FBI director and his first national security adviser that would be James Comey and Mike Flynn also his treatment of Attorney General Jeff Sessions and a 2016 Trump Tower meeting between campaign officials and Russians offering dirt on Hillary Clinton but they also touch on the president's businesses discussions with his longtime personal lawyer Michael Cohen about a Moscow real estate deal whether the president knew of any attempt by trumps son-in-law Jared Kushner to set up a back channel to Russia during the transition any contacts he had with Roger stone a longtime adviser who claimed to have inside information about the Democratic email hackings also what happened during mr. Trump's trip to Moscow for the Miss Universe pageant okay so this is the scoop that is just now just now been posted at the Times most importantly Michael Schmidt and the New York Times did not just obtain the questions or get a description of what the questions are that Muller wants to ask the president the NIR kinda Zack published the list of questions it is according today at least four dozen questions as you can tell from the fact that I'm not looking at the camera very much I am learning this as I am telling you about it and so I have not advanced read these questions I will tell you what they are though all right what molar wants to ask Trump him first what did you know about phone calls that Mike Flynn made with the Russian ambassador Sergei Kiss lyac in late December 2016 - what was your reaction to news reports on January 12 2017 and February 8th and 9th 2017 now what that's about is Minh The Washington Post columnist David Ignatius first revealed in January 2017 that Flynn had made those the secret calls to the Russian ambassador mr. Ignatius questioned whether those conversations had violated the law prohibiting private citizens from attempting to undermine American policies and then in February the following month 2017 the Washington Post revealed the true nature of Flynn's conversations with kiss lyac mr. Muller wants to know among other things whether Trump feared that his national security adviser had broken the law and then tried to shield him from consequences so the first question mr. Trump what did you know about phone calls that Mike Flynn made with the Russian ambassador during the transition what was your reaction to news reports about the content of those communications when those news reports came out in January and February 2017 third question what did you know about Sally Yates's meetings about mr. Flynn you'll remember Sally Yates was the acting Attorney General for the first few weeks of the Trump administration she came to the White House physically to warn the White House that Flynn had been lying about his secret communications with the Russian government so the question again to the president what did you know about Sally Yates his meetings about mr. Flynn how was the decision made to fire mr. Flynn on February 13th 2017 after the resignations what is this after the resignations what efforts were made to reach out to mr. Flynn about seeking immunity or possible pardon after the resignation I'm not sure what that means that's one of the questions listed here after the resignations what efforts were made to reach out to mr. Flynn about seeking immunity or possible pardon I don't know what the after the resignations part of that is but talking to Flynn about a potential partner immunity is obviously an obstruction of justice question alright questions related to James Comey what was your opinion of mr. Comey during the transition what did you think about mr. commis intelligence briefing On January 6 2017 about Russian election interference this is an intelligence briefing we've actually got quite a bit of insight into in part because James Comey just wrote a book where he detailed that right that's when American intelligence agencies their conclusion that Russia had interfere dinh the election to try to help Trump that was briefed to not only the president at the time President Obama but also to president-elect Donald Trump this was also the moment when mr. Comey briefed mr. Trump about salacious allegations related to him from the so-called steel dossier so one question apart apparently that Muller is going to ask Trump what did you think about mr. commis intelligence briefing on January 6 2017 about Russian election interference and then follow-up question what was your reaction to mr. commis briefing that day about other intelligence matters other intelligence matters that we now know included that provocative information about mr. Trump from the steel dossier further on Comey what was the purpose of your January 27th 2017 dinner with mr. Comey and what was said at that dinner similarly what was the purpose of your February 14th 2017 meeting with mr. Comey and what was said at that meeting what did you know about the FBI's investigation into mr. Flinn and Russia in the days leading up to mr. Comey congressional testimony on March 20th 2017 what did you do in reaction to the March 20th testimony describe your contacts with intelligence officials what what this is about is that there have been reports that the president asked other intelligence officials including the Director of National Intelligence dan coates and the CIA director of the time Mike Pompeo that they should somehow pressure or intervene with the FBI to try to get the FBI to drop its investigation into Flynn and the Russia scandal so again this is according to the New York Times tonight one of the questions that molar plans to or wants to ask the president is they want him to describe his contacts with intelligence officials after commis bombshell congressional testimony in March where he said that there is an active counterintelligence investigation into whether or not anyone in the Trump campaign colluded with Russia in its intent what did you think and do in reaction to the news that the special counsel was speaking to mr. Rogers mr. Pompeo and mr. Coates hmm this seems new as noted here by Michael Schmidt in The Times it is not clear whether mr. Muller knows something specific about Trump's reaction to these interviews but the question shows that mr. Muller is keenly interested in how Trump responded to each step of his investigation that is fascinating another question what was the purpose of your calls to mr. Comey on March 30th and April 11th 2017 what was the purpose of your April 11th 2017 statement to Maria Bartiromo hmm what the time says about that while the White House ultimately said mr. Comey was fired for breaking with Justice Department policy and discussing the Hillary Clinton email investigation mr. Trump expressed no such qualms in an interview with Maria Bartiromo of the Fox Business Network on April 11 2017 he said in that interview quote director Comey was very very good to Hillary Clinton that I can tell you if he weren't she would be right now going to trial clearly that indicates that they're trying to get to the president's mindset there if Comey was supposedly fired from mistreating Hillary Clinton then why did you say that Comey was very good to Hillary Clinton what did you think and do about mr. commis May 3rd 2017 testimony in this Senate appearance mr. Comey described his handling of the Clinton investigation in detail he was fired soon after mr. molars question suggests he wants to know why mr. Trump soured on mr. Comey regarding the decision to fire mr. Comey when was it made why who played a role in that what did you mean when you told Russian diplomats on May 10th 2017 that firing mr. Comey had taken the pressure off that was famously the president's remarks to to Russian government officials who we surprised hosted in the Oval Office the day after he fired Comey in that meeting we know the president told those Russian officials quote I just fired the head of the FBI he was crazy a real nutjob I faced great pressure because of Russia that's taken off Muller wants to ask the president what he meant by those remarks similarly what did you mean in your interview with Lester Holt about mr. Comey and Russia shortly after firing mr. Comey even before the meeting with the Russians I believe Trump did that interview with Lester Holt in which he said that the the the Russia thing was on his mind when he fired mr. Comey Muller wants to ask the president what he meant by that what was the purpose of your May 12th 2017 tweet that was oh when Trump posted this tweet James Comey better hope that there are no tapes of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press Moeller apparently wants to ask him what was the purpose of that tweet you'll remember that famously in response to that tweet mr. Comey said in congressional testimony lordy I hope there are tapes we've never found out if there were any tapes what did you think about mr. Comey is June 8th testimony regarding Mike Flynn and what did you do about it after he was fired mr. Comey testified about his conversations with mr. Trump and described him as preoccupied with the FBI's investigation into Russia after the testimony Trump called him a liar Muller wants to ask about that what was the purpose of the September and October 2017 statements including tweets regarding an investigation of mr. Comey mr. Trump did tweet suggesting that Comey should be investigated and and and the White House press secretary also made critical comments about mr. commis testimony Muller wants to ask about that quote what is the reason for your continued criticism of mr. Comey and his former deputy Andrew McCabe now there are a number of questions that Moeller wants to ask the president about attorney general jeff Sessions what did you think and do regarding the recusal of mr. sessions what efforts did you make to try to get him to change his mind did you discuss whether mr. sessions would protect you did you reference pass attorneys general while doing so what did you think and what did you do in reaction to the news of the appointment of the special counsel times notes in a twist mr. molars very appointment has become part of his investigation question why did you hold Jeff Sessions his resignation until May 31st and with whom did you discuss it now the elaboration here is that mr. Trump rejected the proffered resignation from Attorney General Jeff Sessions after the president criticized Jeff Sessions publicly mr. sessions reportedly offered his resignation to the president mr. Trump rejected sessions his resignation after aides argued it would only create more problems the details of those discussions remain unclear but mr. Trump's advisors have already given mr. Miller their accounts of the conversations and now Muller apparently wants to ask why did you hold sessions his resignation until the last day of May and with whom did you discuss it we didn't know about that at all what discussions did you have with Reince Priebus in July 2017 about obtaining the sessions resignation with whom did you discuss it what discussions did you have regarding terminating the special counsel and what did you do when that consideration was reported in January 2018 what was the purpose of your July 2017 criticism of mr. sessions that was public attacks that he was making on sessions last summer and lastly last section campaign coordination with Russia last set of questions that Muller apparently wants to ask the president according to this bombshell new report in The New York Times where they have not just reporting on and describing the questions that Muller wants to ask the president they are actually giving us the list here's the campaign coordination with Russia questions quote when did you become aware of the Trump Tower meeting what involvement did you have in the communication strategy about that meeting including the release of Donald Trump Jr's emails during a 2013 trip to Russia that would be Miss Universe what communication and relationships did you have with the Eagle Arabs and with Russian government officials also what communication did you have with Michael Cohen Felix Sater and others including foreign nationals about Russian real estate developments during champagne what discussions did you have during the campaign regarding any meeting with mr. Putin did you discuss it with others what discussions did you have during the campaign regarding Russian sanctions what involvement did you have concerning platform changes regarding arming Ukraine that would be the Republican National Committee excuse me Republican National Convention the party platform about Ukraine and its relationship with Russia and Russia's and basically invasion of an accession of part of Ukraine what involvement Miller wants to ask the president did you have concerning that platform change to a more pro Russia stance during the campaign what did you know about Russian hacking use of social media or other acts aimed at the campaign what knowledge did you have of any outreach by your campaign including by Paul Manafort to Russia about potential assistance to the campaign hmm we're just about to say this is an intriguing question The Times notes about this question this is one of the most intriguing questions on the list let's say that one more time what knowledge did you have of any outreach by your campaign including by Paul Manafort to Russia about potential assistance to the campaign I will tell you this is intriguing to me because we've heard a lot about Russian officials and people relating to the Russian government reaching out to the Trump campaign this is the way this question is phrased it sounds like this is an inquiry made in the opposite direction the Trump campaign reaching toward Russia according to The Times Tonight quote this is one of the most intriguing questions on the list it's not clear whether mr. Muller knows something new but there's no publicly available information linking mr. Manafort Trump's former campaign chairman to such outreach so his inclusion here is significant should also be noted that Menna for its longtime colleague Rick Gates is cooperating with mr. Muller again that question is about whether there was outreach by the Trump campaign including by Paul Manafort to Russia for more questions what did you know about communication between Roger stone his associates Julian Assange and WikiLeaks what did you know during the transition about an attempt to establish back-channel communications to run and Jared cussion Jared Kushner's efforts there in what do you know about a 2017 meeting in Seychelle involving Eric Prince and finally what do you know about a Ukrainian peace proposal provided to mr. Cohen in 2017 so 10 pages of questions that have been obtained by the New York Times reporter Michael Schmitt tonight and published in The Times tonight just as I was sitting down to start this show these are apparently these are reportedly the questions that Moeller is wanting to ask the president about it remains an open question as to whether or not the president will sit for an interview with Muller or will have any sort of other interaction with the special counsels office that has obviously been a matter of some a lot of gnashing of teeth and some negotiation I don't know what it means about I don't know what we can extrapolate from these questions in terms of knowing whether or not this means the president is going to do this interview or whether this is Muller allowing these questions to be reported because he knows the president isn't gonna sit these interviews for this interview with his investigators and so therefore the pressure should start answering should start asking the president for questions to these answers themselves hey there I'm Chris Hayes from MSNBC thanks for watching MSNBC on YouTube if you want to keep up to date with the videos we're putting out you can click Subscribe just below me or click over on this list to see lots of other great videos
