Ok she went ah----- LOL JINGLEBELL
*SURPRISED FACE* LOL
 
And then she said
oh
 
 
errmm
guys
I think I
may have just
made a
giant
mistake
 
I am
very scared
right now
 
 
I can't
begin
 
to tell you
how
scared I am
 
I THINK MY
GIRLFRIEND
JUST BROKE
UP WITH
ME!!!!
 
 
WHHAATTT!!!
 
 
 
 
What swingin boys and girls today, we're back with another video
Before you start. What were you doing why interrupting me? Why are you wearing prank queen clothes? Oh?
Is it cuz you know that they're the best?
I didn't realize... today of course is another sunny day in the UK
Not sunny well that didn't last very long did it...
Anyway boys and girls today. I havttle thing to do to kick this off, though yea so today we are playing a game of futball
What time is it right now mom Oh I'd say it's half past four.
It's half past four and I woke up thirty minutes ago because apparently when I tell Mum to wake me up... SHE DOESN'T DO IT
You thought I'd want to stay in bed until four after this clip I might have to go inside and
Actually get some prank King merch on because I don't want to where this out in public
I'm not a queen and talking about the merch guys
There's currently loads of offers on all of the merch
And were droppin'  some new merch very soon so remember link in the description check out the merch if you  haven't already go cop some, it's lit
if your not already subscribed smash that subscribe button and also mum how many likes should we say for this video then?
Twelve thousand twelve yeah, why not well yeah
I'm gonna go inside right now and check up on the dogs because they've been misbehaving a little bit recently haven't they mum
No since Kara went,  there's been no wee's or poos, but maybe It's Kiera
I'm a little bit angry at you well seriously Kiera since you've gone
There hasn't been a single wee or poo from Puggo  so we came up with a theory that it was you is this true
Well there you go boys and girls? We've revealed the truth everybody comment down below Kiera wee's and poos
Puggo----! I think
Now the thing is Puggo, we all thought it was you who was erm who was making the mess on the floor
But obviously now. We know that it wasn't you it was um. It was Kiera. We all feel bad, buddy
we all thought it was you and we just want to UM all the unit just
Apologize to you because obviously you didn't deserve all the times off you got over Kira's dirty
Doing, so I guess I'm sorry Puggo. I love you
Anyway boys and girls right now?
We are going off to Ikea, and you guys probably know what that means meatballs no
I wasn't talking about that. I was however. They are pretty cool that means that
I'm probably gonna get kicked out usually when I go to Ikea
I end up getting told off, but I'm really on my best behavior. This time Mum So boys and girls
You know how in the last video I uploaded I disappeared from social media for 48 hours
And when I tweeted I'm done which was the first tweet
I did so many of you guys came in with the supported messages and you were like Morgan
What's up, Morgan a feeling, okay, Morgan?
How are you?
as
upstairs then and I was just kind of fun to think about that and it just kind of hit me I am so lucky to
Have such a supportive and amazing and just fully epic group of subscribers
Like what did I do to deserve you guys like it's so cool knowing that you guys are there for me if I ever get
Upset I like I was honestly just deepen it so much
I just want to say thank you all so much
but just
Supporting me for being amazing and looking out for me when you know I am feeling down because sometimes I get down
And it's so refreshing to know that I have such an amazing group of subscribers tea mugs
They support me so here boys and girls
I think I may need to turn emotional modern mode right now and snap back into usual malls mode
But thank you so much for the support. I really really appreciate it, but now let's go to Ikea, baby
More paper scissors for the film see rock-paper-scissors
Morgan what are you doing? Okay? Just them understand my computer Morgan the computers neuron and we're actually
We're in Ikea. I don't understand. Oh, I just learned did you get?
Confused over confused oh yes
Morgan was doing what lately I'm just getting some food to take to Ikea
But but Morgan, but we're in an Ikea, I keep telling you we're already in an Ikea. I don't understand. Oh, yeah
Are you getting confused again? I guess so
Yeah, I just you keep forgetting you forget. I uh I guess
Morgan what you doing?
What you doing? Just having a quick snooze before we go to Ikea?
Morgan
We're in Ikea. I'm gonna back to bed. We're not in IKEA. Just try to wire me up Morgan Morgan. What you doing?
I'm just getting changed sewing goats right yeah, this is IKEA Morgan, and they're not your clothes
This is IKEA wait. This is my wardrobe. It's not your wardrobe is it home
This is how he and/or I don't believe you. I just keep telling you Morgan. This is not your room you saw him
It's my room
boys and girls
It's me both time mum I've got a little challenge for you. Okay, how many meatballs, can you get any mouths in one mouth?
-
No - - can I just - go on get that one you can do it. You can do it
Don't buy it don't buy it go and get the food and get a food the burden. No way oh my god
She's going for another oh, no you are joking me is that the fear?
Gosh I tell she's couldn't take you balls
I'll give it that what?
So we've just come to look at a new mirror for the house right I saw this one and I was like no I mean
It's pretty cool. Like it's not amazing
I'm like maybe I'll get it, but then I looked at the name, and this is why saw God
Morgon this mirror is literally called God
Morgan I mean
The mirrors got a point. I have I kept on flipping God, so of course you know what that means and I get it
I'm a dad a god Morgan to my house so guys this looks like just you know a normal Charlie
You know nothing out of the ordinary here
Probably the weirdest Charlie I've ever seen in my life, okay, so boys and girls
we are back home right now, and I think you all know what time it is, it's
break time
Now just before we start the prank. I wanna let you guys know that I have now officially
Got the new design of the new merch sorter no guys. I don't ask you a question
If there's one word that I always say that you guys always notice me saying well. What is that word comment down below?
What the word is right now bros? I'll give you a five seconds
Okay
Time's up of course the word is bro like I call my dad, bro. I literally call that mom, bro
Like I don't call anybody by their names. I call Kara bro, so I thought 3 2 1 bye
Why not put it on some merch?
So yeah bros bromwich coming very very soon. It's gonna be amazing
It's also gonna be available in two new colors, and I can't wait for that
But now let me taught you guys about the prank now as you guys know Kara is actually really really hard to prank
She's a good person at spotting when I'm gonna prank her I guess and I was thinking really hard
I was like what prank could I do that. She just wouldn't notice and then it came to me. Why not do a prank which
Nobody is doing anymore and then so Larry takes prank was the perfect idea to you boys and girls
I'm gonna be trying to prank her with God's plan by Drake now the
Situation with me and Kara is it's really really complicated
We're now
Birthday boy. We're in a tricky place right now, but we seem to be on really really good terms
So obviously that means there's not the best idea to prank her, but I'm stupid so I'm gonna do it anyway
so yeah
I text her hey just to make sure she was around and she's here
So I guess let's get started so the way I'm gonna do this I'm gonna put a little bit
You know one more spin on it. I'm gonna say I can put any of the lines in whatever order
I want but they have to be from the song okay on the second thought this is gonna be a lot harder than I thought
These lyrics are extremely hard to work with bad things
There's a lot of bad things that they wish in on me now
I feel like this has got a conversation moving into a little bit of a direction however
there's no they lurk in this song which is like a high like a Hello is just straight in there, but
Let's see what happens. I guess okay
No, clue was good harmony the conversation went from hey to bad things. There's a lot of bad things or the original me yeah
She's probably gonna realize guys, but let's try our best okay, so she said she's message. She said her
Probably the realization that I'd expect what do you mean? She has no clue?
Good thing is we survive one round without her knowing it surprise makes Larry come to go fall. Oh
Okay, okay, she's - she's typing? I'm scared. I'm very scared
I don't understand mags. Are you okay hold back? What oh, there's just a question okay?
This is where it gets a little bit awkward when they ask a question
You have the response, but how can I respond to requests?
It's very all about the look. Okay. I think now I'm gonna go with someone's watching this
Close because like kind of
Links in yes, okay. I've Center no and there you go. She's typing oh
Okay, she's getting worried that is definitely a worried care reply oh
You're such a freak well, I mean she's got a point. I don't even know what you're talking about
Seriously, are you?
Okay, the next line. I'm gonna put is
She's asking if I'm okay, and then if I say that she's gonna get hella worried
She'll me can I call you are you okay? Oh great? Okay? This is why I?
Say no
What's wrong
Tell me now. There's a line, which say don't stop
Me it's gonna take this into kind of a beefy rule
Which I probably shouldn't do, but I'm definitely gonna. Do it. Well you guys know me
She says he's worse. I haven't done anything. Why are you being so weird are you okay?
Kind of feel bad like she's gonna. She's really
Now guys, I didn't want to have to do this, but I seems like I've got no other choice. Just me
Are you okay? This is where I'm gonna pull out the big guns only partly
I only love my bed and my mama. I'm sorry okay
She went our and then she said Oh
Guys I think I may have just made a giant mistake. I am very scared right now
I can't begin to tell you how scared I am. Okay? She said, thanks awkward smiley me, too. I guess
Guys
Did my girlfriend just break up with me over this I think my god. I just broke up with me what?
What?
Guys I think I just made a big mistake with this prank. I'm gonna. I'm sorry
I'm gonna have to tell him sir prank, bro. I don't want to lose her again
she's
What oh?
She boundaries for saying that bro, I'm bad, did you just break up with me?
Okay, no I
Think we'll just put this down as a carrot just got pranked
Hopefully we haven't broken up a little my bad on my mother. I'm sorry
And yeah, okay, so it looks like me Cara. Oh, okay?
Um she was definitely mad for a second though like very much like thank you very much guys
This is definitely one of the most savage pranks. I've ever done
So if you haven't noticed much to like please go do so like please that was crazy. I don't think we're broken up
I think we're together find out in the next video no
Kind of shocked guys
Thank you all so much for watching this video. If you do please get out there subscribe get excited grow Mitch coming soon, bro
I don't know what to say guys subscribe joint involves cops of merch and as always ugly mugs you guys been awesome and I
Love your faces. Hopefully you'll be back tomorrow for another video, and I'll see you in my
next video
Peace!
(Make sure to subscribe to Wispuz and Morgz!)
 
