- The Cleveland Browns have been struggling for a long time. In 2016 they went one and 15. In 2017 it somehow didn't get any better, as they went 0 and 16, and they scored the least points of any team in the NFL. - For the entirety of my life it's been a comical atrocity. My name is Manny, I'm from Columbus, Ohio, and I've been a Cleveland Browns fan for my whole life. There's been just no level of remote success for the entire time I've been alive. - But the Browns didn't always suck. In the pre-Super Bowl era, the team won eight league championships, and one of the great running backs of all time, Jim Brown, spent his entire career in Cleveland, where he was named MVP three times. - That's, like, before my time, so all I know is failure. - You've got to have a vision how you want to develop your football team, and I don't think the Browns ever had that blueprint. - Terry Bradshaw is an NFL Hall of Famer who led the Pittsburgh Steelers to four Super Bowl wins, and he knows a thing or two about starting at the bottom. When the Steelers signed him in 1970, they were the worst team in the league. - When you make bad drafts, when you don't have a vision of how you want to build your football team, this is what you get into. - In 1995, when Bill Belichick was the coach, the Browns packed up and moved to Baltimore where the team became known as the Ravens. Four years later, the Browns were back in Cleveland as an expansion team, but since 1999 the Browns have had only one playoff appearance. - Their badness has defied all logic. It's been a combination of management, coaching, awful drafting. I think the easiest way to pin down the Browns' struggles since they moved back in 1999 is an inability to find a quarterback. They have a tendency to try and get the flashy player that isn't gonna succeed. Brady Quinn, Johnny Manziel, these were guys that were, like, big names in college football that people were excited to see in the pros and really crashed and burned quickly. - Whether it was through poor scouting or coaching, the Browns franchise has notoriously struggled with their first round picks over the years. And with the first pick in the 2018 NFL draft, the Browns selected quarterback Baker Mayfield, but the team isn't betting it all on their rookie QB. Instead, they're focusing on the long game, letting Mayfield develop behind starting veteran Tyrod Taylor. - Those moves indicate to me that they're finally planning and, like, thinking about the Cleveland Browns beyond the next eight weeks. That's one of the reasons I think this iteration of the Browns might actually be the one to buck the trend. - There was a slight glimmer of home in week one, when the Browns tied the Steelers the first opening game of the regular season without a loss since 2004. - You know, they're on the right track. Just keep putting the pieces of it together. Josh Gordon came back, the wide receiver. You're talking about a weapon. Their tight end is pretty good. Their running back is pretty good. They're slowly getting better, so don't be surprised. The Browns could win five or six games, I think. - All I want this year is like five or six wins, honestly. A lot of people are wanting the Browns to go to the Playoffs this year, but for me I just get a couple wins. For some reason, I think this is one of those situations where it's like the past 20 years have been horrible, but it's darkest before the dawn.
