Consider the squirrel. Squirrels are
everywhere and they're pretty cute, but
are they valuable? Not really right?
Believe it or not, medieval Europeans
used to use red squirrel pelts as
currency, just as you and I might
exchange dollar bills today. It's one of
the many surprisingly different ways
humans have transacted with one another
throughout history. It might seem crazy, but
when you think about how we're now able
to pay each other digitally in minutes
cash might be going away the red
squirrel sooner than you think.
The history of money is a movement from
trading stuff you can use, to trading
stuff that's symbolic and now even
virtual. Nowadays, you can send money
safely and easily to pretty much anyone
you know in a matter of minutes, straight
from your personal banking app. So how
did we get here? Somewhere in the middle
of this history is the red squirrel or
Sciurus Vulgaris, which formed the basis
for the medieval economy of Finland and
Russia. In fact the Finnish word for
money, "raha" comes from squirrels. But they also
became a symbol, a collective belief, a
currency. A tikkuri  was 10 squirrel pelts
and a kiihetelys was four times that and
while values changed, at one point a
hundred pelts could get you a whole cow.
But, big drawback: it took time to catch
them and while squirrel currency
eventually went out of favour as metal
coins appeared, there were still squirrel
pelt currency exchange charts even in
1926. Despite what the internet might
tell you though and we asked the Finnish
Embassy about this and they laughed at
us.
Squirrels are no longer accepted as
payment their, FYI. A squirrel economy
is pretty weird, but humans everywhere
have a history of paying with strange
things. Things that are really just
symbols we believed to be worth
something.
These cowry shells spread across much
of the ancient trading lands, from China
to India, to Eastern Africa. Salt or
Salarium Argentum, was paid out to
soldiers in Rome and it's the reason you
now get a salary by the way. In Central
America the cocoa bean understandably
became prized. Even in modern Italy and
this is true, 17,000 tons of Parmesan
Reggiano cheese are kept
bank vaults as collateral. Besides the
squirrel, the strangest / most symbolic /
most unwieldy was the rai stone, of the
Solomon Islands. It had to be gathered
from islands hundreds of miles away and
they were so huge that they occasionally
capsized canoes. Of course it's tempting
to laugh at our ancestors for paying
with such weird things, but we're not
really all that different. For centuries
for us in the United States, gold was the
standard currency and some still obsess
over it, but it's really just a symbol too - not
that far removed from a pelt. And the
same is basically true with paper money.
It's important, but ultimately works as a
representation of a country's stability,
like melting gold or hauling huge
limestone tablets across oceans or
catching 40 squirrels, cash takes time.
A study suggests that Americans waste
200 billion dollars worth of our time
per year just getting it out of ATMs, so
where does that leave us? Today we continue to go even faster and
more symbolic in an era where you can
just send money in minutes from your
bank account to a friend's bank account
on your phone.
Paper money may soon seem just as silly
as paying with a squirrel, so the more
transfers, the more money available in
your bank account within minutes and
less fur. The red squirrel would probably
be happy.
