“A titanic fight over the future of the
Supreme Court...”
“...Justice Anthony M Kennedy, announcing
he will retire...”
“...The first issue that comes to mind is
Roe v. Wade...”
“...Roe v. Wade is doomed.”
Abortion has been a hot button issue for decades,
but President Trump is ready to tip the balance
of the Supreme Court into one that could
reverse the historic decision that established
a woman’s right to choose.
Do you want the court, including
the justices that you will name, to overturn
Roe v. Wade which includes, in fact states, a woman's right to abortion?
"Well, if that would happen, because I am pro-life and I will be appointing
pro-life judges, I would think that that will
go back to the individual states.”
Trump is right.
And even though Roe v. Wade guarantees access
to abortion, states are already heavily involved
in how easy, or difficult, it is to get one.
States have always had a stake in abortion
rights.
In their Roe v. Wade decision, the justices
ruled that a woman had the right to an abortion
in the first and second trimester of pregnancy
and that the states had the right to ban abortions
in the third and final trimester.
But states also had limited powers to regulate
abortions.
From 1989 to 2007 a series of Supreme Court
decisions granted states more and more regulatory
power.
Most importantly, Planned Parenthood v. Casey
replaced Roe v. Wade's "trimester framework"
– moving to a new standard, that said that the state
couldn’t impose an "undue burden" on a woman
seeking abortion.
But it didn’t clearly define what substantial
obstacles to a women’s right to choose would
look like, or when a state was allowed to ban the procedure.
So states that wanted to limit abortions
took advantage of the ambiguity.
Since 1973 there are have been 1,193 state
level restrictions on abortion.
And one-third of these
have been enacted in the past 7 years.
Not all of these restrictions are based on
medical science or evidence.
Some states prohibit abortion based on gender
selection, and some mandate that a woman undergo
an ultrasound and require
she be asked if she wants to see the fetus.
In some parts of America, restrictions have
made abortion essentially inaccessible.
Women in Rapid City, South Dakota, for example,
have to travel 318 miles to the closest abortion
facility.
And more than half of all american women live
in a state with four or more types of restrictions
on abortion.
If Roe v. Wade was overturned, each individual
state would decide the legality of abortion.
A few states already have laws on the books that explicitly
protect abortion rights.
And thirteen states have laws that would automatically
ban some or all abortions the minute that
Roe v. Wade were overturned.
And while abortion is largely considered
a partisan issue,
most Americans, including a majority of Republicans,
don’t want to see the case completely overturned.
If the Supreme Court reversed its decision
tomorrow, things could drastically change
for some women.
But for women whose rights are already being
whittled away, one restriction at a time,
the future may not look so different from
the present.
“What is at stake, is womens' freedom!”
