“Outrage outside a detention
center in New Jersey today.”
“The disturbing images of
children being torn from their parents were
troubling enough.”
“The Trump administration is
reportedly weighing their options of housing
immigrant children at military bases”
How did the United States get here?
In the last 15 years, America has taken in
more refugees than anywhere else in the world.
A fraction of those refugees, asylum seekers,
have grown in recent years to the point of
overwhelming the current system, and now the
country is at a tipping point.
The legal definition of a refugee is someone
who isn’t able to live safely in their home
country, or has a really strong reason to
fear that they won’t be safe if they stay.
Persecution that is racial, religious, political
or national — or targeting what's called
"a particular social group.”
Someone who's been persecuted can apply
for refugee status in their home country or
in the first country that they flee to.
Where they might apply in a refugee camp
for example.
An asylee is a refugee.
It’s just that, they’ve already arrived
at another country, like the United States,
and fear going home.
Here’s how it works:
Asylum seekers must fill out the i-589 application,
a 12 page form
If that sounds complicated for someone fleeing
an oppressive homeland, don’t worry — there’s
a 14 page instruction booklet to help.
Both the form and the instructions are only
available in english.
And the i-589 has to be filled out in english,
or it’ll get sent back.
Not every asylum seeker necessarily
understands the process, or has the resources
to kind of go about it exactly the right ways.
Customs & Border Protection itself has been accepting
very few people in recent weeks
who are presenting themselves for asylum.
So people are waiting to be allowed to set foot
in the U.S. and claim asylum for you know
two weeks on bridges in Ciudad Juarez in the
heat of summer.
At a certain point it starts to seem like
a safer option to go in between ports of entry
and risk breaking the law.
If someone enters the United States without
papers, they can’t even file an asylum application
until they convince the government — in
person — that they’re in danger at home.
This is called “credible fear.”
They’re detained and given at least 48 hours
before their credible fear interview, but
asylees often must wait much longer.
If the fear isn’t deemed “credible,”
an asylum seeker can be deported pretty much
immediately, unless they file an appeal.
If that fear is deemed credible, or the appeal
is successful, they wait for a judge to review
their application.
Yeah, this is where the process gets
very complicated depending on the circumstances
of the case.
An asylee might have a judge sympathetic to
their case, or one with a stricter view.
They might end up waiting comfortably with
family, or they may be held in a detention
center.
And in spring 2018, they could even have been
separated from their children, under Trump
administration policies.
China has historically had the most applicants
for asylum to the United States, and that
hasn’t changed.
But applications from El Salvador, Guatemala,
and Honduras have increased 234% in the past
3 years, with more applicants in that time
period than the previous 17 years combined.
This area is called the northern triangle.
Civil wars and political unrest from the 1950s
through the 1980s left institutions unstable.
Violence, extreme poverty, and crime stemming
from drug and gang activity is widespread.
Asylees fleeing this area aren’t responsible
for the danger they live in — they’re
trying to escape it.
In the Northern Triangle, it's a little
more complicated, because instead of talking
about persecution by the government we're
talking about often persecution by gangs.
So, whether they qualify for asylum is up
for interpretation by immigration judges.
And, all of this is being debated while the
current system is straining just to keep up.
The backlog of asylum caseloads has surged
since 2012.
And immigration attorneys have cited waits
as long as 5 years.
The Trump administration thinks that
the solution here is to make it harder to
even pass the initial screening interview.
If you think of the asylum system as
a multi-stage process — which it is — that
starts with you know asking for and getting
a credible fear interview, and ends with finally
getting asylum — people are falling off
at every stage of that process.
Very few people who start by asking for credible
fear screenings in the U.S. are ultimately
getting their asylum claims approved at the
end.
They essentially may be deprived of
due process in trying to get asylum and so
people who do have legitimate persecution
claims are going to get sent back which theoretically
is exactly the outcome that this entire system
is set up to prevent.
