If you’ve never heard of the Zika virus
before this year, you’re not alone.
It was isolated from monkeys in 1947 in the
Zika rainforest in Uganda and since then it
hasn't really bothered humans much at all.
Until now. The Zika virus appeared in Brazil
for the first time in 2015, and more than
a million people have been infected since
then.
Just to put that into perspective, the last
largest outbreak happened in french polynesia
and it really only spread around to a couple
hundred people.
80% of people with the virus don’t have
symptoms at all.The others have mild symptoms
including fever and a rash.
So here’s why public health officials are
concerned.
Now we're learning that when pregnant women
contract Zika, they can pass it on to their
fetuses and this in turn can cause terrible birth defects.
This is microcephaly. It’s a birth defect
that involves incomplete head and brain development.
So they look like they have very small heads,
and what that means is that they're basically mentally
disabled, they have a shorter life expectancy
and it's just an absolutely devastating disease.
Microcephaly has multiple causes, but officials
think it might also be linked to Zika.
That’s why public health officials in Latin
America and the Caribbean are cautioning women
not to get pregnant right now.
In the US the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention took a similarly extreme measure
when they issued an unprecedented travel advisory
telling women who are pregnant to avoid traveling
to countries in Latin America where the virus
is circulating. That included their very own
territory, Puerto Rico.
Zika virus is carried by mosquitos. it might
be transmitted through sex as well.
And the type of mosquitos that spread Zika
live in warm areas all over the world, including
the US.
The main vector for this disease is called the Aedes
aegypti, and it's mostly found along the southern
US. But there's some question about whether
it's also carried by another mosquito called
the Aedes albopictus and that has a much broader
range.
Right now there's no cure or treatment for
Zika.
They're working on vaccines but that could
take years. So really the only way to protect
yourself is to try not to get bitten by mosquitos,
which is difficult to do.
It’s especially important that pregnant
women are aware of the risk.
There needs to be a lot of awareness about
the virus and about this potential damage
to the fetus later.
