here's the latest news from the
mainstream media Donald Trump jr. had a
meeting with a Russian during which
nothing happened FBI director James
Comey may have leaked secret information
while waging a personal vendetta against
President Trump whose son Donald Trump
jr. had a meeting with a Russian during
which nothing happened
Democrats supporters of Hillary Clinton
paid to acquire disinformation from
Russia in a file that was sent to James
Comey who may have leaked secret
information in an attempted Vendetta
Donald Trump jr. Russia nothing the
United States is preparing sanctions on
North Korea after the Obama
administration allowed the North Koreans
to develop a Donald Trump jr. at a
meeting with the Russian during which
nothing happened in an attempt to pass a
Senate health care bill Republicans have
taken the extraordinary step of
canceling their Donald Trump jr. Russian
noting hundreds of New York police
officers turned their backs on New York
Mayor Bill DeBlasio after de Blasio
abandoned his city during a vigil for a
murdered police officer in order to join
a massive leftist assault on Western
values and civilizations in Germany that
resulted in riots where hundreds were
injured stores were burned and Donald
Trump nothing had a meeting with a jr.
during which Russia happened and at the
I investigation into Bernie Sanders in
his wife is gaining steam with the feds
gathering documents in an attempt to
prove the couple committed fraud in
order to secure bank loans for Donald
Trump Russia nothing nothing nothing
in further developments in the Donald
Trump jr. story nothing has happened to
reveal that something happened during a
meeting at which nothing happened Tim
Kaine called the nothing Russia treason
collusion malfeasance disgraceful
nothing Donald Trump jr. the Trump
administration has announced its
intention to deploy anti-ballistic
missile batteries in Poland and the
Czech Republic in order to deter
aggression from the Russians who met
with Donald Trump jr. in a meeting at
which nothing happened the Obama
administration canceled the deployment
of those batteries to appease Vladimir
Putin the president of Russia a place
from which someone had a meeting with
Donald Trump jr.
nothing happened at that meeting which
may have been illegal or collusion or
treason or colleague allusion or other
words that mean nothing which is what
happened the Islamic state the vicious
terrorist organization that grew up in
the wake of Barack Obama's military
malfeasance in Iraq seems to have been
defeated at last shedding a new light on
the meeting Donald Trump jr. had with a
Russian during which trees and collusion
illegal nothing nothing Senate Democrats
have extended their campaign of
obstructed to the latest operation
appointments so that crucial areas of
government responsible to the safety and
security of the country are understaffed
while Donald Trump jr. was having a
nothing with a Russian during which
meeting meeting meeting meeting Russia
Russia Donald Trump jr. nothing treason
collusion meeting Russia illegal illegal
Russia meeting jr. Russia nothing
nothing nothing nothing nothing nothing
this is mainstream media news trigger
warning
I'm Andrew Clavin and this is the Andrew
Clavin show
