Lunch with red drops shots, and then you have to get a place that I've got to the ticket
So will your wife call so you have to like do this think it's worse than I thought
After they had you go to Italy because you kind of know that - I didn't forget
i think it's cleaned
Okay, I have a date tonight
Really? You're actually going out with someone so narrowed it down to two of them
Okay, so this one or this one remember? He's like a bad boy, so I have that it doesn't matter
They both look good. Just pick one honey. It's not gonna matter what you wear if you don't calm down
You know what? You're right. I need to watch TV
Is my phone dead? lele your phone is never dead it's at ninety percent eight
All right, we need to talk, all right we have something to tell you
It's time to relax. All right, you got to calm down sweetie. I
Okay, you need to make some changes in your life you need to take time for the simple things like seeing the Sun
I don't know. I'm good drinking water
We think you should do
yoga
Yoga's got yogurt. Yoga yuga
almost
okay, let's do yougurt
Hello my little hairless muskrats let's rock
And now we'll go into the crispy turkey bacon poems
Got it exhale all the bad breath we have
 
So experience oh
You're doing great - remember relax
Keep bending bending bending and just when you think you've bent more Bend even more
Now bend even more
You want to scoot back some more scooch back?
Just when you think somebody's face is right behind you keep scooting
Then then there it is there it is keep bending
Aren't you gonna finish the class. Okay. I just quit my job
You quit your job. So but listen this um this worked. Okay, I feel amazing and feel relaxed
I feel like an either go home and just do nothing. I'll see you tomorrow
What's that smell
Friends are you okay? We've been trying to reach you. I'm okay. Just been eating a little bit
Wait, weren't you wearing the same outfit yesterday?
Yeah, where's your phone is it dead? No someone in here. I'm pretty confused
So, okay. How was her date last night?
Is anybody else sinking did you really quit your job honey? You love that job. Are you gonna pay for your bills?
Are you eating a bill? She's eating a lot
Stay home. No, that's the food baby. Not a still a baby food, baby. I gotta feed it Lily
Okay, this is too relaxed way too relaxed
Yeah, nothing you can stress about like hanging your rent and like a little stress
Lele
This is getting too crazy, I think I might have a solution what what is it?
So, I don't know the guy but I know the guy that knows a guy that helps some guy get over his fingernail phobia in
An instant he can help her scream. I think it's worth a shot
Whatever. Let's do it. It's try anything
Welcome joy to you friends. The master is expecting you in the top floor. Please remove any items of clothing you wish or not
It's your world. It's your choice
Welcome
That's his weight my opinion a minimum element
So you're liking paying or something yeah
All right, so
Oh my god, I feel great. All right, it's 50 bucks
Get my life together it actually works you feel normally I feel amazing. I'm so happy you're back. Thank you
Let's just go home. Let's go. All right
Yes, mom, I got my job back no, I was just like a 24-hour thing that I was just doing crazy lazy
And so yeah, I'll find out
Everything's good
right
So
