Hey everyone so if you follow me on
Instagram
then you know that I recently went to
Ireland
with my husband. This video is actually going to be a
little bit of a breakdown
of what we did for the whole trip and
also a review
of the trip itself.  Throughout the trip
we toured four different castles and
Great Value Vacations
provided the international
flight for us, they also provided the
rental car that we used
and they arranged all
the accommodations for us as well at each of the castles.
Each of the castles is a hotel. All that
being said I'm gonna come to go through
what we did each day
and where we went
each day and let y'all see that.
While we were on the trip
I did take footage and hopefully you can get
some ideas if you decide to do this
specific tour
things you can do while you're in
Ireland.
So we left on a Saturday we flew out
from San Antonio
to JFK and then from JFK we caught our
international flight to Air Lingus.
We ended up arriving at around
6 a.m. in the morning so when we arrived
on Sunday we went by
our rental car location which was
Dan Dooley Rentals and they gave us a
Nissan Micra
which is basically a compact car
and we drove that Nissan Micra for the entire week. It was automatic.
So once we got our rental car and set out
on our way, we took off to Cabra Castle
which is the first stop with the Great Value Vacations tour
Cabra Castle is located a little ways outside of
Kingscourt.  The castle itself sits on
a pretty huge estate. As you're driving up the
driveway to the castle. You can see just
beautiful green it's actually
a big golfing area all throughout it.
So that was really cool. As we pulled up the castle itself is
quite breathtaking as well.
We checked in and
got to our room, and the room was really
nice
I mean it was what you would expect I
think
from a mid century castle that
has been
converted to a hotel. So because it was
the first day
and we were incredibly jet lag -
we played it pretty cool first day.
We did go down and have dinner in the
restaurant
We both had Irish steak
which was incredibly delicious!
So after we got breakfast we took
off to
Newgrange! Make sure you go to the visitor center
first they actually shuttle bus you to
Newgrange
Newgrange is the oldest known burial
site of
mankind. It's older even than the pyramids by
I think 500 years or something...and if you're a little claustrophobic
just be aware that you do go inside
New Grange, but it is very very tight so
if you are a claustrophobic person
you should be aware that.
We woke up the day of St. Patrick's day - Tuesday
morning and checked out Cabra Castle. On the way out we said goodbye to
the Irish Wolfhounds a
little bit cause they're pretty cool.
Then set off to Donegal to head to castle #2 which is
Lough Eske castle - pretty sure I'm saying these names wrong...
Lough Eske Castle is in Donegal and
once again the views were breath taking
on the way. Lots of country side, lots of sheep
lots of cattle, passed a tractor or two
Lough Eske contrasted quite a bit
to Cabra Castle in that it was a
little more modern
Lough Eske castle also had a full spa.
My husband and I didn't actually do
anything in the spa because our mindset was
"we're here in this other country, so we're going to do stuff"
We headed to the closest town, which is Donegal
and checked out the parade
One thing that we're really upset about
was that we only get to spend one night
at Lough Eske castle.  It would have been
really cool to stay there a little bit
longer because
that room and that hotel
was just so nice and it's the
only castle that I think is actually
relatively close to a
decent sized city.  I think if that's something Great Value Vacations
would want to rethink or redo
is giving you an extra day
at Lough Eske.
So on the way
to Kilronan Castle we stopped
at the Slieve League Cliffs. One of the
excursions that you can do and
optionally purchase
through Great Value Vacations is the Cliffs of Moor.
We didn't. Even though we purchased it,
we didn't actually go and do it because
we realized it was just so out of the
way
from all the hotels. So we ended up
finding
the Slieve League cliffs and I am really happy
we did those. The Slieve League Cliffs are actually
free
right before you hit the cliffs
there's a little cafe restaurant that
gives you information on them
as well as gives you a little gift shop and has different snacks and beverages.
Those cliffs were breath taking!
I definitely recomment
checking out the Slieve League cliffs if
you are in that part of Ireland.
Kilronan castle was
for me and Mr. Hallease - our least favorite castle of the trip
I don't know, compared to Cabra Castle which is your more
conventional, what you would think the
castle would be
and then going to Lough Eske Castle which is just
luxury five-star feel to it.
Going to Kilronan Castle was just kinda like...eh..
That being said
Kilronan does offer quite a few things. They do offer a spa.
We did not partake, but they do have one.
They also do have fine dinning. We did eat at their restaurant.
The grounds are actually very pretty
and there was a lake right near by as well which gave a lot of picturesque views
and they also have different paths you can walk.
That was cool too we kinda went outside
and
got some fresh air and did some trekking.
It does seem to be very popular, there seems to be a lot of weddings that happen there
and I can see why
it would be a great location for that.
We kinda played it cool the next day, we really just relaxed
and just kinda slept in.
We just hung out at the castle.
Because at this point we've been driving every day for at least 2 - 4 hours
getting to different places and
seeing different things.
One thing about this trip that was kind of hectic is
it is a good amount of driving.
So if you live in a place where you
know
being in a car for 30 minutes is like
so long for you...
This particular vacation might not be up your
alley because you are driving
a lot.
We checked out of Kilronan Castle and drove straight to Dublin
for the day and spent the day there. We found a random parking garage
I think on St. John's Street and explored Dublin
we went by St. Patrick's Cathedral
which
you have to go to St. Patrick's Cathedral, and while we were there a
young choir was practicing which was really
cool
because they're voices filled the halls
of St. Patrick's Cathedral
The thing about Dublin is that I really would consider it a smaller New York
you are going to see a lot of different
ethnicities and types of people
represented.
We definitely fit in compared to
most of the rural cities that we went to which
were predominantly Caucasian.
Being a minority and Ireland to me
didn't feel that weird because it's not like they were looking at me
as if I were a threat.
I think in America
an african-american you tend to get
looked at with this
kinda just like confusion
or just like a projection of just automatic fear...
as an african-american.
In Ireland mostly people just kinda
looked at me with
I think just excitement.
...someone we don't usually see!
They're staring at you, but its a different kind of stare.
It's a different kind of stare, its more like
an excitement honestly.
Dunboyne Castle
is ...I wouldn't consider it a castle
wouldn't consider that a castle.
It's a really pretty building
The room was pretty basic nothing too
extravagant about it they have
really great wifi! Dunboyne - best wifi!
For sure! And I liked their bar area, and their bar
food was good. So,
that was the whole trip through the castles of
Ireland tour that we took with Great Value
Vacations.
All in all it was a really great
experience and I feel like
we definitely got our money's worth
working with Great Value Vacations to get
the whole trip planned was
pretty easy.
It didn't take much at all. Every hotel knew
we were coming
and there wasn't any taper reservations
snafu anything like that. Great Value
Vacations held up their end of the
deal
we ended up seeing Ireland for exponential cheaper
than if we had tried to do the whole
thing ourselves and
book everything ourselves. So I will
definitely be using them again
and I would recommend them. If you're the type
of person who
just what's a travel deal or
travel bargain - definitely look into Great Value Vacations
and the trips they offer. I know I will!
So I hope you enjoyed this video let me
know what you think in the comments
below!
Let me know if you have
ever been to Ireland
what you're trip was like
and if you would go back.
I'll see you, when I see you!
