“Even by his biggest critics,
Glenn Thrush today writes
"he’s never been as entrenched
in an issue, in a project, in this case
"a recovery and
rescue like this.”
“No member of Congress can do
what the President of the United States
"can do in reaching out to both parties
to be able to say, ‘This is a national crisis.
"'We, as a country, need to pull together
for fellow citizens who are suffering
"'and to lower the rhetoric.’"
By the way, Chris Christie has an excuse,
he was saying all of this to justify him
hugging president Obama in
the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy-
whereas the New York Times wrote
this piece praising Trump's alleged call
for unity- even though that's not
what he did- most likely just
to butter him up so they can maintain 
their unfettered access to the administration.
Why else would this piece
feature statements like:
In announcing his trips, he used the dulcet,
reassuring anduplifting language of prior presidents.
His rhetoric was strikingly different from his
much-criticized pronouncements at a news
conference this month when he equated
the actions of leftist protesters in Charlottesville
with the violent, torch-wielding alt-right activists
who hurled anti-Semitic and racist epithets.
Which I’m assuming is praising Trump
for not saying “black” looters need
to get shot for trying to save
their lives or something?
I mean, Trump optics commentary is 
largely redundant at this point, but
since the New York Times thinks
what Trump is doing is presidential,
let’s talk about it. One of the first
fucking things presidential Trump said
when he landed was:
“What a crowd. what a turnout.” 
"I wanna shout out to Hurricane Harvey
"for gathering this many people here today.
Also, shoutout to Joel Osteen- big church,
"big beautiful church. 
Opens his doors to everybody."
I mean, to claim that Trump is being
presidential simply because
he’s “toned down his Twitter presence”
and sticking to “media outlets used
"by his predecessors.” is next 
level sycophantic horseshit.
Especially when Trump’s description
of Harvey ranged from
“whoa, look at all this rain” to
“rain so big it’s like Texas”
he literally said that.
“Still pouring, still a lot of rain.
Nobody’s ever seen anything like it.
"I’ve heard the words ‘epic.’
I’ve heard ‘historic.’”
And what’s doubly messed up about
the NYTimes approach is when
you consider that Trump knew very
well the hurricane would take over
the news cycle, which is why
he used it as an opportunity
to pardon Joe Arpaio, the most racist 
sheriff in America for indiscriminately
targeting latinos and putting
them in tent cities.
He famously called
concentration camps.
And I assume Trump was also extra
presidential when he used the chaos
to push his insane transgender ban that
even his generals aren’t on board with,
that will cost taxpayers WAY more to
enact even though we were told
it was necessary for financial reasons.
And look, I don’t really care that
Trump spared us the photo op that
every president and presidential
hopeful engages in by hugging
actual victims. We all know
he’s too much of an elitist to actually
engage with the unwashed masses-
let’s be real. I also don’t give a shit
that Melania looked like a distant,
elitist asshole in her stilettos
walking into a disaster zone.
Yes, the Trumps were there.
And now they’re gone-
Because Trumpis literally hitting
the campaign trail once again.
This was just a pitstop for him
to sell fucking $40 hats.
But you know that was also presidential, at least 
it didn’t say "MAGA" it said "USA" on them.
I don’t care about any of this but what 
I do care about is how Republicans
are moving in congress to cut $1 billion
in relief funding to fund Trump’s stupid,
unrealistic Mexico 
border wall.
Trump just waved, thanked the crowd
and pushed onward to Missouri
to talk about something he and 
his wealthy benefactors actually
give a shit about- 
Tax Cuts-
“...by reducing the crushing tax burden
on our companies and our workers.”
So yeah, this guy isn’t even trying to
appease his base- with the notable
exceptions of tasteless water carrying
for Nazis- and you’re all trying
your goddamn best to call him
“presidential” as if some
NYTimes-stamped “return to normalcy”
will undo the lasting damage
this tyrannical narcissistic neocon
is doing from the bully pulpit.
At least we should be glad
we’re not celebrating him
for putting more troops in Afghanistan
or bombing the shit out of Syria
or Yemen or something. But I guess
this isn’t surprising since the extremely
logical elitists that write these think pieces
are the same ones who kept calling
Trump a fucking populist- and
conveniently ignored or attacked
Bernie Sanders, an actual populist-
And to be honest, sometimes I can’t help
but feel like the press deserves it.
The New York Times does amazing work
and is more important than ever right
now, and yet in the past 24 hours
they’ve published a series of garbage
fires that I would rate from tasteless
to uniquely dangerous- starting with the less 
serious “cultural appropriation is dope”
hot take, followed by “Trump is being
presidential after Harvey moment,”
and ending with the supremely fucked-
Eric Prince op-ed on why we must
wage wars with mercenaries instead 
of troops. Because privatization of
death has been really fucking
successful thus far-
let’s just colonize the
Middle East, fuck it.
In the end of the day, what’s happening
in Houston is absolutely awful,
and my heart is with the good
people of Texas. But don’t mistake
Trump stopping by for a hot second
as giving the proper care and attention
Houston deserves. It’’s just another pitstop
on his campaign trail where he’ll be
promoting bullshit that doesn’t actually 
help anyone making less than $250K a year.
He’s only there to shill 
his stupid fucking hats.
I’m Hasan Piker, please don’t forget
to share this video with your friends
if you think presidential bar keeps
getting lower and lower,
don’t forget to follow me
on Instagram @hasandpiker
and on Twitter @hasanthehun.
And this has been The Breakdown.
