Oh, hello everyone, how's it goin doing? It is mess yourself there
And today we are making a video on goddamn tik tok
The guys have never heard of this shitty app called tik tok before it is basically an app where you can record
videos of yourself doing you know, dumb shit
Now this sounds completely fine, obviously because that's basically wander in making shitty videos
But the weird thing about tik tok is that most of the people who use it are just these dumb kids
alright, and if you go on the app, you'll then soon realize that you know, if you give you know,
Some dumb kid a camera phone. Alright, he's gonna make some very dumb web videos
The app is just basically filled with a lot of cringe
Alright and a lot of just weird things which make you sort of realize
This is the kind of world that we live in when people like this exist
Okay, you know so I'm just gonna show you a couple of videos like I found alright and yeah
I'll let you guys judge if you guys want me to start making tik tok videos
Alright because that's how I meant to stay relevant in today's age
All right, look at all these bloody kids on bloody tik tok and all that you chew
I guess I'll just have to show you what you're missing
Okay, but seriously whose mom is this, alright, can you imagine your mom
Making this tick-tock. All right, whose mom is this? All right. Oh my god. Okay. Okay. I can't go down
I'm sorry guys when you're trying to get cell phone service
It's still not working
Yes, I got cell phone service see
The peak of relatable comedy guys. Oh my word
No rules
Punishments
Mercy baby
Whose dad is this now?
Sometimes any dress and some government some dad just was like
My birthday
And he decides to just make a tick-tock or just hidden wall getting changed where he puts on a t-shirt
Why is it looking at me? So badly honest?
Yeah, anyone else find it really weird that you know
There's these creepy guys on this app who can you know react to your own?
Tick-tock. All right, and basically, you know inviting, you know, Peter balls just come out, you know, hey
I don't trust these right the boss old men on these aim for like a 13-year old, okay
This is the thing about
is that the content will never end because these dumb kids will listen to these audio or I
Haven't think you that's easy. I could just repeat that on my camera and then they'll just do these weird things
I pissed my pants the toilet was just do so I drunk too much
Damn beer now
I tried to hold it in but my bladder just giving in a pitch right to my I drove
Why does this guy look like you know, but that is him speaking more. This guy looks like some heat baby us. Alright
Two situations. All right, you got imagine that number one I mastered. This is your broad Club
I want mine thought about dancing around saying that you
See my many girls right now, right? That's basically it inviting me to balls
But regardless, please do not do anything like like this. Alright, you're inviting wait guys online. Alright, it's not good
Wow, okay
I know I said these kids are gonna regret posting this one that when that when they rolled up I had
This guy's all done and okay
Yeah, this these are the type of people which I don't trust the Internet. All right, who is this?
guys
Okay, this is it right or musically
As a bad boy right there some some bold oz fattest man with handcuffs, okay
Well, whose dad is this whose dad is this?
No, no, no, okay, okay
Okay, honestly, okay
Okay
All right, I'm imagining this woman see all these numbers go up in her followers and thinking I like yeah
like people want to see more content from me when in reality were just like fascinated about
Like this woman making tic TOCs in our spare time, I think
This woman's joining in was this wicked morning, okay?
You gotta use with me
I've gotta get schwifty and yeah swifty. Yes i'm cringy mama. I'm sure your son is proud of you. Okay?
no offense to this woman, but she kind of looks like Sid from the Ice Age anyone else think
His pretty good, okay
I'm on vacation every single day because I love my occupation occupation
Then you should go change it Wow
Okay should go and change your life, you know, and it's not so bad living in convenience store. You know, that's if you have
Very low goals in life if you're tired of getting here cuz you're a furry clap your hands
Cuz you're a furry clap your hands if you're tired of getting hey and being cringe click baited
Getting hate because you're a furry clap your hands
Wow
Okay
Yeah, she doesn't have hair it's like an egg, okay hilarious
You're basically welcoming cyberbullying. Alright, I know for a fact it's like a couple of months time
Alright, there'll be a big fiasco of cyber bullying on tik tok
Because come on. Now, you do something win and cringy on the Internet you upload it publicly. Come on
Now someone's gonna find a mic for now a few little arm. Basically doing Wow, that is basically what I'm doing. Wow
This is this one. My life is you know, just watching is just dumb kids do dumb things
Did you just call me a bitch?
Bitch is a dog
Dogs bark bark comes from trees trees come from nature nature is beautiful. So boom
Okay, she does kind of look like Austin Powers, okay, come on now if you don't like furries go away
If you don't like furries go away
Any time for you Lee, if you don't like furries go away
And then I don't understand, okay, well it's kind of funny I guess
Do you have to keep being Furya secret?
Why you have to call it coming out? Let's
How to put a child for adoption
As a furry I'm learning more and more things about this bloody furry thing, but I don't know anything about it except, you know
They just dress up as furries . But yeah
Honestly, you know like like I could take bullying, you know because I'm used to it but you know
Like I feel sorry for all these people that they must be getting bullied. You know, I feel bad that how they're
You know handling all of this like Fame and attention that they get it you sure you want to do this little girl
Okay, I mean whatever
Take advantage of little girls
I mean at least you know, we got a lot of good memes on tik tok, okay? At least we got a lot of good memes out there
Take two steps forward if your minecraft account was ever hacked
Take two steps forward if your parents beat you at night. Oh, okay. Nice take two steps forward if you ever kiss a girl
I believe it. Honestly, I really do believe it
How many furries are there? I might be missing out on these furry shit, okay. How many furries are there?
If he sees how I really look he is gonna be disappointed and I thought it
Katharina Valentine, I will not sit here anymore and listen to you talk bad about yourself
Ha ha ha ha don't be mean
Are you call it? Trust me Internet man? You can't trust it. Alright they're asking for it I have no sympathy for these people
They're asking for it. I play Minecraft everyday. My mom thinks I'm gay
Alright to run over Mexicans in my driveway. Okay, 60 noscope Wow, man. The song is dope
I like to beat midgets with my telescope
See what I mean? Alright, it's just to you know kids
With no top song. I'm just realizing
This is the world we live in
Wow just accept that guys, alright. Just accept that. Alright, this is the future generation. Okay. Are you proud? Alright, you should be proud
Right, and this is another trend where these girls are like kissing people and inviting other people to kiss
Like a
Challenge on tik tok is where you know you get shrugged on the shoulder and then you pretend that you're kissing someone you're inviting
random people on the Internet to pretend
Make out with you
Commencing at the siren any and all crime including murder
Reacting to what? Is she saying?
Okay, so this kid made it do it with me oh and he pulled a girl like he's gonna shoot me
Iku to the police Oh, have a good day
-
This woman must be so confused about the hate she's getting all right. Ladies German, I'm gonna end the video there
Thank you guys so much for watching and oh, yeah, I'm laying the video
buh-bye
