How have you prepared for adulthood.  Those years of career building,
bill paying and defining your sense of self. Stop and think...
how many times have you called your parents to ask them about mundane things
that never crossed your mind until you  were 28.
How do you clean a dishwasher?
Where do you buy carpet cleaner?
Oh my gosh I need to buy a car...
Jouelzy a grown a** woman and leader of the #SmartBrownGirl movement,
has recently relocated to Houston, TX
after spending 10 years with the blessing
public transportation in NYC & DC.
Now she’s taking you along for an
Adult Life Lesson on How to Buy A Car
First Jouelzy has to define her lifestyle needs for buying a car.
Locale - Houston, TX is a large city in the southern United States.
Everything is a 20 minute (plus) drive away
Leisure, Work or Both - Jouelzy works from home, but...
always consider your work commute & load.
Mileage & gas prices do add up.
Growth - Starting a family? Starting a career?
Tall friends? Active volunteering?
Your car is a life enhancement, make sure it’s enhancing...
what you are establishing.
After much research Jouelzy decided...
on the 2015 Hyundai Sonata, so come to the dealership with her.
Jouelzy headed over to North Freeway Hyundai dealership
and spoke with a salesman
Ash answered all of Jouelzy’s questions.
Test drove cars with her.
Went over all the features available.
Defined the exact features Jouelzy must have
and what was negotiable within her budget
Answered more of Jouelzy’s questions.
Picked out the exact car she wanted.
And answered more of Jouelzy’s questions again.
All with a smile.
The Hyundai Sonata is perfect for Jouelzy because
Its a great value
Has all the tech features Jouelzy wanted including:
blind spot alerts, navigation, digitized dashboard, and bluetooth
low maintenance/repairs cost
and most importantly is an asset & enhancement to her lifestyle
whether she's back settle down family,
and/or focus on her career and establishing businesses,
And most definitely when she heads out decked out,
the Sonata will always look good and function well for any of her needs.
North Freeway was Jouelzy’s destination
because of all the dealerships she visited
they were patient, diligent w/ answering her 50 million questions
and offered great sales prices & rebates on their cars.
Buying a new car the process is pretty simple.
You can put cash down towards the balance of the car,
apply for a loan with your bank or
credit union beforehand
or apply with the finance department at the dealership.
Be upfront about your credit,
most dealerships will work with you to find a loan that fits your means.
Go over the warranty that is included with the car,
read all the paperwork and sign on the dotted line.
For a used car, you want to inspect the car,
get the maintenance record
and run the Vehicle Identification Number (known as the VIN)
to find out about any previous accidents or damage on the car.
The dealership for both new & used cars
will help set you up according to your state’s motor vehicle laws.
and hopefully you walk away with the same amazing feeling that Jouelzy did.
Now off to a great start in a great car and a good relationship with the dealership,
you’ll be back for maintenance and your next car!
Here’s to empowering women as car consumers!
