Hey guys!
I'm here today to show y'all how I do my regimen
for the summer.
As you can see I just came back from the gym and I have my in like a roll tuck pomp thing
I've been wearing my hair like this, for like...around..two or three days I think.
It's about that time to wash the hair and get it clean.
To wash my hair I only use the Terressentials Mudwash
I've been using using it now on and off, I think about a year and a half.
And I love it! It's all my hair usually needs to get clean and feel moisturized.
So, when I get into the shower
I just take the time to really let the water get into my hair and penetrate my hair.
I usually will stand under the shower for at least like 5 minutes or so to just really make sure
the water is penetrating all of my hair
and i'm really getting it into every part.
Because my hair is so dense, it can really take a while and I have low porosity hair as well.
So, it really takes a lot of work to just get the water into my hair to nourish my hair
and moisturize my hair.
From there I take about an ounce of the mudwash and fill up about a 5 oz applicator bottle with water.
Shake it, and use that diluted mudwash to then penetrate to my scalp
This is where the applicator bottle really comes in handy
because once again it helps get through the thickness of my hair to my scalp
and actually get the mudwash there to clense my scalp.
And I do this throughout my whole head, taking the balls of my fingers and really working it in.
So from there I take a little bit extra mudwash about a quarter size amount for front and back of my hair
and work that into the shafts of my hair.
The applicator bottle mudwash was just mostly for my scalp
and now taking the mudwash without any dilution
I can work it into the rest of my hair, and get it on my ends
and also finger detangle and remove shed hairs.
I always put my shed hairs on the wall of the shower
so that way I don't end up clogging my bathroom drain.
I also have a little drain prevention clog thing!
So here's the finished product, as you can see
the mudwash is already starting to define my curls really well and hydrate and moisturize my hair
At this point I'll usually finish washing the rest of my body
while I leave the mudwash in my hair for about the 5 to 10 minutes
that it takes to like wash myself and shave and all that jazz
And once I'm getting towards the end I usually give myself another good scalp massage to break up
any debris and buildup and also just work in the mudwash that much more.
So now I rinse everything out and I usually try to use the weight of the water
to try and get any remaining shed hairs and also to just
really make sure that my hair is nice and moisturized
I'll very lightly pull my hair apart to help separate and detangle everything without being too harsh
on my hair
Look how long my hair is under the water guys! It's ridiculous...
It's ridiculous because when you see the finished product you're gonna be like
"Her hair is so short!"
But its not! It's like 10 inches all around
But...
just wait until you see the shrinkage though...
It's just so stupid...
How much the shrinkage is..
But hey! That makes it awesome!
At this point, if the spirit moves you
You can turn the shower to the cool setting
and close down those cuticles!
I do NOT do this very often, only when the spirit moves me to do it.
And there is my shed hair
It's been about 3 or 4 days since I've washed my hair - which his the longest I usually go.
So there's quite a bit of shed hair.
So here's my hair out of the shower
completely wet
...just to give you an idea...
 Isn't she lovely!
And then I take my turban twist and
you know...microfiber..blah blah blah
...hair breakage, whatever!
And wrap my hair in that
And while its in the turban twist
I go and I get dressed!
So i'm back!
How y'all doin!
I moisturized my skkkiinn!
Put on some deodorant...all that good stuff.
Take off the turban twist
so we can see what we got under here.
Alright...
My hair is about 50% dry, the turban twist does a pretty good job
of getting all of the excess water off of my hair.
Which is cool!
So uh here's like the 50% dry twist around...
or not...
or I could just shake - that works too...
I'm forgetting how I edited the video so...
Y'know...here we go!
There's the twist
turn
 360 degrees of the 50% dry
You can see how the back seems shorter than the mid section
But that's just because the curl pattern is that much tighter
And here's the finished product!
Here is after about 2 hours...mmmm...NO! Like 2 or  3 hours later
when its completely dry.
Once again, I do this regimen about 2 to 3 times a week
depending on how active I am.
And that is all I do with my hair guys!
I'll see you when I see you!
