HOW DID SHE DO IT??
Today we want to talk about transformations,
because we posted a picture on Instagram,
this one here, it is a incredible transformation of Mama Bee
and a lot of you guys have asked us on Instagram:
how did she do it, what's the secret,
are there any diets, what are the tips.
So here we are to talk about some things that Mama Bee that has done that has changed her life.
Phsically and mentally.
Ok, Mama Bee take it away, cause you have notes.
She has notes, I don't have notes.
You'll never see me doing a video on makeup tutorials or fashion,
2 things I have no idea about,
but getting healthy and getting your life back on track
and living your best life
I'm doing a lot of work on myself, so if I can help you
- That would be awesome.
- Those are the notes that she's looking at.
She's very prepared, this is why I marry her, because she's prepared, and now she's pinching me!
There's nothing wrong in being a lifelong student in life.
And now she's caressing me and scratching my back.
You don't have to take any of our advice.
Furthermore, we're not actually selling anything in this video
No sales, no crazy diets, no profit
Other than the ad that played before this video started.
- Well you know, we've gotta eat
- We've gotta eat!
So this is more like an educational video
for people out there that we wanna help and want to inspire.
We would love for you to post pictures of yourself and tag us,
if you have decided to change your life, so you have to
make that decision first for yourself none can make
that decision for you, but if you do get started, please
- let us know, let us be part of your journey
- let us know, tag us on Instagram
tag us on twitter, @EhBeeFamily
- There it is, ok.
- Ok, three things.
Very simple, nothing complicated, no secrets
Number one is DIET.
I hate the word "diet", "diet" to me means restrictions.
I don't restric myself of anything
I love having fast food, fried food, desert,
but I do it in moderation. Let's say
"eating habits" instead.
So i like the term "eating habits", because then you're not restricting yourself,
you're not putting any pressure on yourself, your're making healthy choices
most of the time
80% of the time, we eat lean protein.
We eat a lot of fish, beans, I'll make
like bean stews with ground turkey or we have tofu.
For example, today, we came back from the gym
and we had this:
Mama Bee made salmon, tofu, some beans,
a nice balanced salad, we're drinking water.
Blackberries, yet some chicken,
there's no sauce on the chicken, this is just roasted chicken
sea weed salad... Would I love to
have a cheesburger and fries
Absolutely! You can have all those foods
we eat all of those foods, but we do it
in moderation, so we will treat ourselves
once or twice a week, versus eating
that kind of food 7 days a week. If you are
intaking too many caloris that you don't need
your body doesn't need, your body's gonna store that as fat
So it's very simple guys. When you go to that
supermarket, there's the cali and the tomatoes
and the lettuce and the spinach
and the brown rice, instead of the white rice,
oatmeal, that's what we eat most of the time, some Saturday mornigs
we'll wake up, "Let's go for breakfast", guess what
we're having, we're having wafles, we're having syrop
pancakes, we're slamming the bacon
- slamming the home fries
- we're like eating it all
and then with icing sugar on top
it's balanced, and its about portion sizes
- Just having control.
- And one thing we feel
really strongly about
Soda. We do not drink soda. I used to.
If you eliminate soda from your life, i don't care
if it's diet or if its' ice tea
or whatever - any type of sugar soda
with high fructose corn syrop, the fake sugars and stuff
All that stuff your body doesn't know what to do with it, turns it into fat, so...
if you have challanges with your weight
and you drink soda, eliminate soda for 30 days.
- Starting now. Don't drink it.
- You know that
bottle or can that you have in front of you right now
Walk over to the toilet
- And dump it.
- Just dump it. Don't put it
into your body. If you're drinking coffee, please don't put
6 creams and 6 sugars in your coffee
A little bit of milk, maybe 1 sugar
Once you start reducing the sugar your body will adjust
Get rid of soda, get rid of any sugary drinks and
only drink water for 30 days and see
the difference . Tweet us back, let us know.
Sorry, guys, we're just being honest.
People don't want to hear the truth. When you tell the truth
people call you controversial. We know what it was like
when we were consuming enormous quantities of
soda, might we go to a birthday party and have
a can of soda, once a month, yeah, we probably will
it's cold, it's in a cooler, there's ice around it
you know that you're gonna crack that can open and it's gonna taste really good
most of the time, we've disciplined our mind
- to make a right choices
- Also another big thing befoer
we get to the point #2 - breads. Breads,
crossaints, muffins,
bagles, bagguettes,
- Like with the butter.
- The crulers and the donuts
with that pretzel bread.
The cinamon pretzel!
Cinamon pretzel, big cinamon pretzels! Just cut down.
Cut down.
Numero dos!
So these are the three thing we're telling you guys, i've put a lot of work into this.
Alright, she's got the notes.
The dreaded word...
EXERCISEEE!!!
Sweating! Exercise is a
one million percent
- must.
- Getting your heart rate up whether is riding a bike
whether is running, but you have to sweat, you have to get
your heart rate up. You can't just go out and just walk around.
No, you need to run, you need to jog, you need to ride a bike.
They haven't exercised for years and then they start to exercise
and they're like OMG, this is hard, i can't do this!
Yeah, it's hard! It's really hard!
- You have to work hard!
- You have to gasp, you have be feeling like
"I don't wanna do this!", but just keep going.
Keep going, you've gotta exercise, 3-5 times a week
for maybe half an hour, to 45 min
a day, if you can do that, it's like taking a shower.
- Well, i take a shower, it takes me 30 min.
- I know a lot of people
- sitting on their phones
- Lot of people texting! For 30 min!
That can be used for something else to make yourself stronger.
So lot of people say:  "Why, I don't have the time,
I've got kids, I've got to work, I've got a job" - you wake up early.
It's your body. I would wake up at 6.00 AM
6.30 AM, i would work out at 11.00 o'clock at night
Whenever i could, i would take half an hour
maybe 45 min, and just run and sweat
and do whatever it takes to just
get my heart rate up. Talk to a doctor.
The doctor would say the exact same thign, yes, you need to exercise
- and this is what you can do.
- When you first start to
exercise and you haven't exercised in years
you are going to want to give up
Because you think "I can't do this, i can't even do 3 sit-ups
Well, you're gonna build now, so
today you're gonna do 2 sit-ups, and then the day after you're gonna do 3 sit-ups
And than maybe in a week you're gonna do 4 sit-ups
But it's that progression, that you're looking at
Day 1, you're gonna wanna
You might get sick.
but then tommorow it's gonna
get better and its gonna get better, so don't give up, even the elite
athletes, in our crossfit gym, when they're done
their workout, they're on the ground
We have friends that are the olympic swimmers, olympic swimmers!
Incredible shape, and when they're finished working out, they're on the ground.
And Mama Bee is just starring at them while they're glicing on the gourn and...
Shadow to nemo, I'm married, i am blind!
No. 3 is... MINDSET.
Mindset.
And that starts with self-care
and self-love. I love myself so much that
I'm gonna do this for myself, no matter what it takes
even if i have to sleepless night. So the #1
thing that you're gonna do when it comes to mindset is you'r gonna start
to love yourself, and you're gonna do things for yourself
And you're gonna start to really take a hard look at
the people in your life, who are the healthy people for you
So for us, we have a lot of friends
at our crossfit gym, and they're super-positive
they are inspiring, they have the most
amazing things to say, they want us
to do well, they're constantly pushing us
- and bringing up the best in us.
- If you have a friend who'se also
looking to improve , then work with them,even better
go thogether, just get out there and run
- and sweat.
- One of my closest friends, Amy,
i've had the best times with
because we would wake up on a Sunday morning, sit and have coffee for an hour
together, chat, then we would do
two classes of yoga, it was just amazing to be able
to share that with someone, share something that I love
with someone that i love
That's an amazing feeling, so try to surround yourself with people like that
and understand the difference between love
versus attachment. Through our life
we make attachments with people along the way
but there're certain point in your life when you need to make
a few detachments, and you're gonna upset
some people, but that's the only way
for you to really grow, and to continouly surrond
yourself with people that make you better
and now want the best for you.
- So there it is guys.
Those are the 3 main things, so:
Eating habits, exercise, mindset.
There are 3 thigns that both of us have actually worked on that transformed
our lives.
Oh, and this is a secret tip - after you take a shower, and dry you hair, whatever.
don't dry the water on your body.
- Really??
- Yeah.
Why?
Because, that's a good moisture for your skin.
And you can use coconut oil as well.
So this is like an extra tip
She smells like oranges and coconut oil.
- She smells delightful.
- So after you shower...
...don't towel-dry yourself.
Just stand there for 10 minutes
if you have the time, if not just...
- I'm telling you....
I hope you guys found this video informative, we just want a share
our experiences and what we're learn with you guys  and if
you have any questions let us know down in the comments and we'll respond
Also, if you have any crazy transformation stories
or you want to show some pictures - tweet us, @EhhBeeFamily
or tag us on instagram, we're all over the place
Remember that every  day is a fresh day
for a new opportunity. And you can change
every single day, every single morning
is an opportunity to improve your life
and change your habits, so if today is the day
then please let us know
We love you, thanks for watching guys
And now i need to go work on my farmer's tan.
Aaaay, papi!!
Thanks for watching everybody!
Please like, subscribe and leave the comment down below.
If you haven't subscribe yet, please click on the icon on the left and a little thing will pop up and you get to  subscribe
If you already have subscribed, please forget everything that I have just said.
It's my radio voice.
Bye!
