let's go mr. monkey let's go here we are
the challenge my son mr. monkey thinks
he can beat me in Battlefront
while he's been in school I've been
practicing a little bit and battlefront
is a pretty fun game that we've been
playing I think this time I'm gonna beat
mr. monkey we got our Xbox one hooked up
I am going to give him the advantage so
I have the regular Xbox controller and
mr. monkey has the where's this the
elite controller so I'm gonna give him
the advantage because he needs it
this is battlefront fun little game I
like it it is time to beat mr. monkey at
his own game here you think you can beat
me at my own game
oh it's called rebel I just okay
uncle I think Empire it's all good now
I'm gonna change my blog later I gotta
change my flight okay it's over yeah
yeah there you grandpa's here screw you
grandpa's gonna get smoked all right
here we go I've come close to beating
you
oh I feel it Oh
so I'm at the bottom of reiden head mr.
monkey is av family and I end our drawn
this way that I'm smoking your guide so
the object of this game is to reach a
hundred points and when you shoot
another guy on the kilim you get their
token ball with you okay can use what
but I'm running away you're old and
collected over my friends you're winning
19 to 7 some a shoot at me so much you
that mean mr. monkey is nothing bit
whoops by your daddy I'm coming to get
you
we're not guys one of these guys they
was look like they're running away
Oh would that be running over there is
that you would aiming at me come on
26 to 11 okay that's fine that's fine
I'll give you all the leader song yes
guy running away boom
I'm sorry oh this guy tuning oh that you
can you this guy one right there he's so
weird
who's gonna throw it up guys this one
didn't even know him there Oh mom digits
scuse me Oh didn't even know where I am
look look look look look
oh you know what do I got you that
thought mattered unbelievable who took
it
get your vidya me watch whatever them to
sneak around here and they're already
like dinged up because i had to leave
and now you don't because you know that
your son is better than you know let's
go miss your mommy let's go let's go
wrong key let's go i practice practice
so much if you look at the points laid
your hand all backwards what is that
you're a gamer hat was not fair mr.
monkey beat me at battlefront I need
more practice Thank You mr. monkey
smoked me in Battlefront no matter how
much I practice mr. monkey always wins
so I will keep practicing remember that
it's because he got the advantage he had
the better oh yeah controller he cheated
he probably programmed something to give
me like straight headshots every single
time so there it is anything else you
want to say mr. monkey let's go mr.
monkey let's go he's unbelievable this
kitchen I hope you guys enjoyed that and
let us know in the comments of his other
games he wants to play or if there's
anything else you want to see I
practiced enough and I thought that if I
recorded this I would show the world
that I could be mr. monkey at this stuff
clearly I'm fired on you thanks for
watching guys you love you very much
hmm yah yah yah yah
