On Sept. 8, 2016, the Osiris-Rex 
spacecraft will rise on a tongue of fire.
Leaving Earth on a seven-year mission to snatch 
part of an ancient asteroid and carry it home.
Its target is Bennu, a diamond shaped 
clump of rubble a quarter mile wide.
Asteroids like Bennu were the building blocks 
of the early solar system, 4.5 billion years ago.
Most of these chunks of primordial 
stuff merged long ago ...
... in violent collisions, to shape 
the young Earth and other planets.
But Bennu survived, pushed and 
prodded by the gravity of the planets.
Today, Bennu has a regular, 14-month orbit, 
which swings it close to Earth every six years.
But sunlight warms the surface of the asteroid ...
... gradually shifting its orbit in a way
that could eventually threaten the Earth.
Osiris-Rex will take two years to reach Bennu, 
then spend a year mapping its surface.
In July, 2020, the spacecraft
will pick a spot and descend.
And try to steal a chunk of the primordial past,
for humans to study for decades to come.
An 11-foot arm unfolds and extends.
The spacecraft drops, and
briefly touches the asteroid.
A puff of nitrogen blows a few ounces
of ancient dust from the surface.
A cosmic high five, before the
spacecraft retreats to safety.
The sample is weighed and 
stowed in a fireproof capsule ...
... for the two-year cruise back to Earth.
As it approaches home, Osiris-Rex will 
jettison the sample. Gravity will do the rest.
If all goes as planned, the capsule 
will fall through the atmosphere ...
... open its parachute, and land in
the Utah desert on Sept. 24, 2023.
A handful of matter retrieved from
the dawn of the solar system.
Atoms, separated at birth, returned for 
study after 4.5 billion years of wandering.
Future missions might visit 
another nearby asteroid.
A larger spacecraft with robotic arms 
and legs could straddle a 20-ton boulder ...
... grapple it and tow it away.
Then carry it back to orbit the moon, 
within reach of Earth and its astronauts.
Another step in understanding the birth of
our solar system and the world on which we live. 
And perhaps, a clue to protecting 
our blue and green planet ...
... from an asteroid that may, 
one day, veer too close to home.
