They told me that they had to go on a trip to Damascus.
I was not aware that they were planning this protest
in the city’s main souk.
That evening,
they said that the “Brides of Peace”
staged a protest.
They showed their pictures, 
they even said their names.
I couldn’t stop thinking, 
“What will happen to them?”
Ever since I can remember, my dad used to talk about
how Syria’s situation should not be like this,
about the corruption of the Assads, about their crimes.
We knew that there was something wrong.
But just like everyone else, we adapted ourselves to the situation.
But when the Arab Spring started
with the revolution in Tunisia,
we knew that the wheel would turn
and the revolution would reach us.
We were hoping for a revolution,
but not really expecting it.
The situation was very difficult. People were extremely oppressed. 
But it was a great feeling, 
an unusual feeling, 
to see the revolution starting in Syria.
I participated in peaceful protests because
I believed that they could change the authoritarian regime.
Unfortunately, the situation started to deteriorate
and people started taking up arms.
Men were starting to reject peaceful actions, 
thinking that with this regime, pacifism would not achieve anything. 
We wanted to prove that it was still possible. 
We met a group of women, including Rima Dali and Roa Jaffar.
We sat together one evening and began to brainstorm.
Someone suggested wearing something distinctive, 
something that symbolizes peace. 
This is how we came up with the idea of wedding dresses.
I remember that day very well.
We tried on the dresses.
We had prepared black abayas
to wear on the way, over the wedding dresses.
Even this was a symbol, 
throwing off the black covering and appearing in white
to say that we wanted peace for Syria.
So Rima nodded, we took off the abayas...
“FOR THE SAKE OF THE SYRIAN PEOPLE, CIVIL SOCIETY DECLARES:
STOP ALL MILITARY OPERATIONS IN SYRIA. 100% SYRIAN.”
People were stunned.
We started walking. 
And as we walked, people were walking ahead of us, facing us
but in silence. 
I felt as if we were flying.
I don’t know where I got the courage
to talk out loud and say,
“Cheer, cheer for the Brides of Syria!”
And I made the sound we make at weddings.
Suddenly everyone started making the sound! 
I remember the face of one particular person, an old man.
I looked at him, and all I could see were tears running down his face.
He came close to us and said, “May God protect you, go on! Go on!” 
We thought we would not even have time to unfold the sign, 
but we were there for a while, around 15 minutes.
We marched and blocked off the road.
Then security forces arrived and arrested us.
I’m not sure what was going on with us. At this moment, with security forces before us,
we didn’t care about anything. We weren’t afraid of anything.
We were standing there, filled with joy, eager to convey our message. 
We thought they would interrogate us for a while and let us go.
We didn’t expect to be arrested.
They got us into a military jeep.
It was a strange scene; brides in police cars. 
They led us up to a building. 
Here, the real horror started.
Groups of young men here and there, all blindfolded.
The sound of beating,
the smell of blood was everywhere. 
When I first heard the news, 
I had this feeling as a father,
it was something great for me.
It meant that they had beliefs. 
Of course I also felt sad because 
I know the brutality of the regime.
One of the interrogators had an electric cable. 
He beat me with it.
Lubna heard me screaming 
and she collapsed.
I was so afraid that something would happen to her there.
It was a horrible moment.
The good moments were when someone was released.
We’d spend the days talking, crying or singing. 
 Mother, the song of love is my song
These were special moments.
I wish that there was a camera to film those small things we did.
Eight days after the New Year, 
they said each one whose name is called should go stand in the hallway.
Our four names were called
and we went out. 
The next day, after two months in detention,
we were released. 
After we were released, we were even more determined.
Unfortunately, by that time, the peaceful movement was fading.
The voice of gunfire was rising higher.
And it became very dangerous to call for a peaceful activity.
Most of the residents of Sweida, our town,
80 percent of them, are pro-regime Syrians.
The landlord evicted us from our home
and they closed our father’s restaurant.
We no longer had any means to live.
The circumstances imposed on our family 
by our own Druse community from one side
and the regime from the other...
It became too much for us to handle
and we decided to leave Syria.
I met my husband, my love, through the revolution.
We got engaged on the boat to Turkey.
No one was ready for a wedding.
My husband, Asaad, and I celebrated alone.
My husband’s name is Ali Jilani, 
he’s from northern Syria — Kobani.
Of course, he knew that I was from Sweida, and Druse.
And I knew he was Kurdish, Sunni.
My immediate family had no problem with the issue. 
The problem was with the extended family. 
They said they disowned us. 
We even recieved death threats.
I used to imagine that I would have a big, beautiful wedding 
just like those on television.
Instead, I wore jeans and a T-shirt.
I’m a bride of freedom, a bride of peace. 
This is even more important than celebrating my own wedding.
