They’re always asking, “Why Ghazala Mhamdi?”
There are no women who work in politics and unions.
And from Gafsa, a woman from Gafsa!
I grew up here in the mining basin. 
During Ben Ali’s era, the ruling party had complete control.
He would hire all his own people
even in the phosphate company in Gafsa.
The rich got richer 
and the poor remained poor. 
I founded the Union for the Unemployed in Gafsa in 2005.
I was beaten up for the sake of this committee.
On Jan. 5, 2008,
a group of mothers organized a sit-in.
Things erupted and there were serious protests.
Things erupted and there were serious protests.
Things erupted and there were serious protests.
The regime resorted to shooting at the protesters.
Four young people were killed. 
Everyone agrees the 2008 protests
were the first nail in the coffin of the Ben Ali regime.
Freedom!
My bones were broken and my mouth was broken and my knee was broken,
but I didn’t back down.
I stayed on the street and kept fighting. 
It was a huge shock when the Islamist Ennahda party
won the first elections after the revolution. 
Ennahda has a retrograde view when it comes to women
and I am a strong feminist. 
The shock was that after removing a dictator like Ben Ali,
that women would go backwards 50 years!
After all that,
I decided to run for Parliament.
Our party is called Keeping the Promise.
The red flower represents the blood of those who died in the revolution.
This is an independent party.
We tried to make it representative of the unemployed, men and women.
As you can see, everyone here is unemployed.
I am trying to win to be their voice.
Make our voice heard for the sake of our sons.
I promise you so.
When I couldn’t find a job, I went on a hunger strike for 19 days.
Ghazala, how many times did the police hit her in the street?
Ghazala is the queen of resistance!
Today is Election Day.
I’m here to vote for myself
and may God grant me success.
I am the voice of the hungry, poor child.
I am the voice of the worker in the government and the farms.
I am the voice of the unemployed.
I am the voice of the women.
Whatever happens to me, it’s not important.
The important thing is to try to amplify their voices.
I did my best.
I entered a strong battle and competed with 57 men.
It was a tight competition,
and the rest is up to God. 
