Yo guys what's happenin? Yeah, I'm back back in London
We got the camera gear we got the camera equipment and right now
I am motivated to go
Harder than fucking ever so we're gonna try and get a million sell for the first to meet for the next month
I am about to go harder than you've ever seen me go before mark my words on that year. We've got the cameras back
I'm back in London. We've got all the cameras confiscated by the police two days ago
we bought everything also 6000 pounds all getting everything back and
Lee's just coming to meet us disco boy is just coming to meet us now in the van
And then we're gonna go try and hit off an overnight ton. It's good old-fashioned overnight challenge got my boy Scotty here
You know what's happening. You know what time it is
It's time from it's not on the jumper for nothing guys
So we're ready to go harder than ever right now meet up with Lee right now
He's going to pull up in the van in 1 2 3
3 2 1
Gimme these cut these in the traffic jam oh
Oh
Oh other side
Boys oh
Right we're going to this swimming pool there
He's struggling to drive straight. We're going to try to get to the swimming pool. It closes in
17 minutes
We're here, and there's no one at the desk
Darrell just just whip it in. It. Just whip it in. It is happening
seizing a mouth
It's good oh, it's a swimming pool nonetheless. It don't look amazing but
It's all we've got we were short on options
At the moment we've got live in 11 minutes - it closes, and we want to go to the swimming pool
Right what are you saying right?
Guys we're here
This don't look like there's a six women pour in it does it guys back to the Swimming
Overnight challenges, we've got a swimming pool in ages yeah, and they're like the funnest overnight challenges, and we're about to smashes
There's no one at the desk
To the poor it's not oily Lee it's not so nice of them to like leave the desk while we come and infiltrated it
What we do oh yeah, yeah, yeah
Laughing out there
A lady might be reported seeing us jump out of the gate, and then she went into the office with all the water
Oh, yeah
Yeah, well the Tigers attack
Authority
You can
Probably for tomorrow
Yes or hot tubbin everything
Right guys um
We jumped over the little gate and the lady dog was walking past we thought she was just a normal person go to the gym
It turned out she worked there
She grasped us up but Scottie managed to slip off and they said oh we checked upstairs, and I said Nana
He's gone out to the van. It's all good, and they're like oh cool, and they just kick ass at it
They don't even know what we're doing. There's no idea about the other night challenge
They just thought we were fucking about so I think we're all clear. I think Scotty's gonna. Let us for a fire thing in it
It's looking good. They're still watching the entrance to managers bonus ringing
Yeah be hidden in the staff room or something because they said we all far
As guys less dislike you
But as you can see the guy here, that's the one that told us to leave
Currently about half a mile
Even reason we wanted to know where the lights are geysers so we can bring the place back to life at night
Is looking up now
Bryan Bryan and Malcolm are just leaving now all jokes aside
Yeah, this is the place to start do this from Paul's neck who's still the outside of London?
You're amazing, bro, it's guys fire exit the people driving past. I think we're robbing the place obviously
Our skies in is looking good no alarms by the seemed like looks of it although. There is a big alarm up there
I
Got here smashed it mate. I scored comment. I told them boys like Scott. He knows what's good good. Oh
Right yeah, but right
There's the sensor above the door
That is going off so if we just close that please shouldn't be able to get in
Why I splash him but
Turned off he ran up these stairs they come looking for him and the girl come looking for you
She was our check. I heard a noise, but I checked and there's no one up there
So this might all back he goes on. Oh yeah
Yeah, yeah, she probably coming in
Oh you hit always that diverting what like the loft, ah oh
Yeah that you need by these oh
Yeah about six now that six four and end the good old 6 a.m.
Me me always thinking that I was thinking that
That's on the top
I
Kind of like
He's done that before that's nice first time
We'll keep over these lists
Know better my gosh we want to jump off the internet we know how deep it is
Make just says deep end. Yeah, good night
But we go up yeah
To the next level
Okay
The Shawn and tortures in
That's my guy
The cops taught us to stand here wait is that we good and so I'm guessing we just um run Frost
There's so many of them if we've run out the front
Please the patient waiting for us why we just bought some mud
Oh
Very pissed
Working in there is baffled. We told him um we David blamed it
We do illusions and stuff, so we just we said we thought yep
Cool this cold ever yeah, they were chilling they said they've seen these videos before
Chilled they yanked right arresting us on suspicion of burglary they know we want burglar. They've seen the videos online before they know
Hartfordshire police on a different hand would've arrested us, right
then boys
Yeah, I think I think
Bebe's a gimme voice you're an animal Bros -
Also cheers Mike
Oh I
Feel bad now I feel bad
The Geezer to work that
Good boys
Absolutely no makeup bit too excited. It's 556 in the morning Bentley and Ricky's off. Hope you guys enjoyed this video
This what?
madness
Me it's quite when me and above older boys later on today
And we are gonna conquer the world mate right now off your live is 556 in the morning. I've slept for about 25 minutes
On my boy squeeze shoulder in the back of this van, but right now. I'm warmer than ever than ever
I'm more awake than ever. I'm more alive than ever how actually feel good
I'm ready to smash the day, but guys we're gonna be on loads of madnesses, so there's loads of videos coming your way
I don't know what we're gonna be doing yet, and it hasn't happened yet, but we know when all the boys getting together
Madnesses are gonna occur. Hope you guys enjoyed this video if you're new around here. My name is Ali
We're doing these matters every single day make sure you subscribe make sure you get a notification bells on and guys
I'll see you in the next video
