This is gonna be such a pain to clean up. Oh my god.
Awesome Intro to all vlogs<3
Hey YO WAAH, Good Morning Logang!
So i got that morning voice, i got that deep voice
*SINGS*Baby lock em doors and turn 'em lights down low...*
I got that icy hair, im talking iced out son!
*SINGS* ICE ICE BABY AHH *HUMS*
but yeaah it's a good day,  I'm 'bout to go workout
Get up pumping, who wants to hit the gym?
*TAPS ON VARIOUS OBJECTS*
*DAB LOGANG*
Okay, We hit the gym and ♫i'm Feelin' good!♫ da da da wooh!
IDK what i'm up with this singing today but (INAUDIBLE)
YOOO, Ok so uhh hi. I got some good stuff planned for us today, yeah some real good stuff
Including, these legooos
There are so many lego's in this giant box, hahaha.
Let the pranks continue
Muwhahahahahahaha
The only thing i need to figure out is who the victim is. I got ma boy Mark, got ma boy George, see my logic is i'm moving out soon.
Why dont i just **** shit up
Oh lets talk about that
Uhh yeah, i'm moving out tomorrow guys. I've had so many amazing memories in this apartment man, I've smashed there,there,there,there,there,there,there. I've pretty much smashed everywhere in this apartment.
And its all gonna be gone.
Im loosin it bruh.
But its ok, on to bigger and better things
*DAB Son*
It's a good thing too though because people keep ordering pizza's to my house like for example at the gym this morning,  this happened.
Guy: You have a pizza delivery.
Logs: I have a pizza delivery?
Guy: Yep
Logs: How many pizza's do they have?
One and Wings.
I didn't order a pizza or wings bro.
Bro this has happened everyday for that past three days. I have not ordered a pizza and they keep bringing pizza
Yo! I don't even eat pizza bro, I don't eat cheese bro.
STOP sending pizza to my HOUSE
It's funny though, It is funny,I guess you can keep sending them....Yah I'm moving...I don't care.
*A few moments later*
*Jake and Paul together*
Jake: Sup.
Logan: Nooo.
NO
Jake: What's up bro
Logan: What are you doing here?
Jake:Nothing
What are you doing here?
Jake:I'm just hanging out bro
(Jake do some noise sounds)
Jake: Prank wars
Imma be back.
Imma be back. I might end up killing my brother.
*12 seconds later*
OKAY!
I was right! I'm this close to killing my brother
Let's me show you why
OH MY GOD!!
Shut up Maverick im in distress right now!
No I can't handle that
Nooo
You gotta tell me what happened bro
What went wrong? That you were just like go for it Jake.
I was in my room. I hear them come in through the balcony.
Noooo, Them sneaky little muthaf***Grunt noise*
I come in and I go what are you guys doing? and their like oh were taping up logans room with duct tape Prank Wars.
I was like "Oh he's moving out in two days it's cool."
Logan saying in his mind *Wtf Mark*
You're right Maverick. You might have a point.
Get them views on Jake's channel, steal his audience with my charisma, and icy blonde hair.
Mark: Maybe get on Disney.
Maybe get on the Disney Channel here we go.
Jake: HERE WE GO!
And then what I only have to put up with this for one night right?
I'll just sleep on this duct tape for one night it'll be dope.
AAAAAAH!
You know what I'm salty about the most? The computer and the TV.
Yea that would F**kin piss me off
Tha-That I don't like that.
Hey, don't run away and try to avoid problems!
*Maverick Chirping*
Noo.
Absolutely not an excuse
I couldn't stop
Ohh...
Alright.
We're done with this prank.
Okay, good ride guys!
That's my boy! Good Hanging BRO
Alright yeah, I'm out this bitch dude
Ain't nobody got time to clean up no legos. That's a fact.
Bye Jake, I love you! That's my brother right there.
Yo! *scream*
Oh! Jake.
Get back. Clean my car.
I'll clean it. I'll clean it.
Bye Jake! Bye!
Yo that was a good day guys.
We did this we did that, we dabbed, I'm talking nose
