 
Hey, good morning. Logang. I got gold sunglasses 18 . Bro I'm obsessed with these
I'm not gonna Lie guys ok so. I am so big
I got swole and a lot of people have been asking logi doves. Why are you working out so much lately
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It's been picked up when you're shooting it pretty much all throughout april. Oh shit my birthday is coming up april first
 
 
 
 
What is it what what date is all its much gonna be march 24th when this vlog comes out. Yeah, dude. I'm  man
I'm turning 22 on April first anyways. Yeah
Logan Paul Vs season 2 and a lot of the stuff that I'm verseing or challenging is like Super physical
I just want to make sure I'm a tip-toppit tip top tippity not not dead shape for that and yeah
we got fun collab today uh
We got a fun collab today
with a guest that I know you guys love and then I'm going to a high Fashion event tonight so imma be puttin on my
Sexy clothes watch on dude. Why do I dab too much bro
Kevin hart would say (because he was in my video) the dab is dead sorry Kevin Hart, I'll stop
just
kidding
Hollywood how you feeling? Oh?
Look my mixtape. Just dropped and that shit is fire. Ayo. Woah, no need to be so loud
No, I here is because my mixtape just drop that   it's what know that
Yo its fire oh hi . Oh, hi mark. I logan job
So that girl guys with the big booty she left home now really. What are we gonna?
Do it's a real shame, but you know the good thing about being creators on the internet. Yes, you'd up you got a
booty grow
The good thing about being a millennial is we only got booty at our fingertips
Honestly though bro computer booty better than real life booty
No, I'm not gonna. Have any something else good news Bears guys
It's time to eat food my first meal of the day will we go
Fiesta Veggie Scramble, or got Mandarin chicken all right here somebody
Pump is coming to the event tonight. That is true. Yeah, I bet I'll look sexier than you rope that. It's true
Why you just admit it like but I got you just luck. No, you're right road
I'm borrow your screen
Why?
My question is why not cheers bro. You got it? Thanks. I'll see you later one. Page is a weird are you?
still my girl
The great thing about having meals prepped for you. Is that you don't have to worry about what to eat
Oh, what do you how did you get back in here first ?  thought you left double tiny thing second of all
You're fired
A Mexican comes over to my house put double-sided tape on me, and then strap it to . Oh hurts. What is it bag?
oh
Yeah, you're right. Oh. God today is laundry day
You know I hate laundry day about time too little more to make me look go to China
yeah, why actually I'm about to make myself with all my
Have a logistical. , , it smells like work out ah yeah
I'm really gonna throw it on the ground right there. Huh? Well come on move out is like  couple days
Please no well
If you have any desire helping me wrong cuz about to do all this room. That is drier. What's up question
Sophie is that you
How you been huh? Yeah, what are you doing? My job?
I've been  here. I got a surprising your hands go, but yeah, I haven't done my laundry in a while
graduating classes oh
No, those are good. I like that better. Not Dolce Gabbana 18 Carat gold
Do you need help getting out man? Good? Are you sure?
Okay, what does  upstairs hanging out and mark walks in and you brought your friend over um how tall you by the way six?
foot three four okay cool and
I'll told your friends I 741 your seven foot one. Yeah, I'm . No, haha
Young is
crazy
Why Martin you're like 64?
whoa
Whoa, what's it like bro? What you didn't see her know you're only there for like a solid spot
Oh my God both tall people are like out a little bit gangly, but you're like in statement. You  it really athletic
Yeah, this is impressive
What you got going  there to build and the height and everything put sophie
Have you seen what she can do? Oh?
My God, I love itself becomes rocket. I can just like show her off
How you doing on this yes? What do you think of that bow?
He doesn't you know Thursday?
, so we are walking to go do a stunt right now as you guys know this little girl right here is capable of shooting
Arrows from her feet. You're like a real-life superhero Sophie. You should be called
Pasta girl because your hair looks like some sort of noodle
See muhammad Ali look for the location
Can I get a double thumbs-up from our German boy?
That's the most German thing I've ever
So I've shot in this alleyway before and we have gotten kicked out from here currently doing a wall set to set up this Target
This is your target yet. Look at this. What is that? Oh?
That is an ass for sophie. I don't have a symbol what the heck the only people I have
L
I think everything is set up. I think we're ready for the sun
I'm yelling but whispering because I don't want to get kicked out again with the dads. I gotta stop at this point interesting volunteers
Oh, yeah, okay. Yeah, let's do the all this security guard
Security cook here's the shady thing about this you have a bow and arrow. I'm just going to put it right out
There you have a bow  you have an arrow. This is used to kill people keep people have died in the past
Let's all talk about
What go fish it's a card game
it's a card game if we deal cards that each person gets 7 and
When you deal card you say go fish you try to match them you talk to you time. Oh ok?
You're german we go. We just pull them both that go fish talk works every time. Oh, wait. He's coming back
Uh if you were doing  , and you drew a 3 what would you do?
I'm just rented by time  guys don't have to answer this question
So as soon as he rounds the corner shooting this video and okay?
Hey, what's up internet? My name is Logan Paul. If you did not know that now
You know this is Sophie Dosti hai see ya, I just said that you guys have not seen Sophie has a really cool town
So as you can see sophie. She's pretty accurate right right? Oh. Yeah, you don't respond adjust the camera stick now
We've done this before she has shot a pineapple on my head was that hard
No, no
Okay, good because today we're doing it with an apple absolute little smaller than a plaintiff's he decides you also. It does have the pine
Wow
That hurt don't be wise
What are you doing? You said you paid the apple I can show you the apple right here wait
Go there. Is it my chance don't be come on
Come on. Don't what am I gonna do?
What you did was wrong?
Apologize what would other people think is this what do you think is it?
What do you think is in like? I'm I know the arrow in my chest
You didn't know how did you not notice this girl shot me in the chest with an arrow?
With your feet. Oh, so, it's kind of cool
Do you think it's kinda sexy that I can take an arrow to the chest? Yeah makes like like oh, I like that
I like you I like you. Oh
That's my man does an arrow in my chest. Oh, no. What do I do?
Once you're going Deeper.  know what up g?
any advice
What happened there? My girl shot me in the chest with an arrow?
Now you do yes, if you think if you could have a good day, what up dude? Oh?
Yeah, bro. Don't be bossy pants me in the chest with a narrow your evil in my room 80
marks, So aggressive, oh
I got someone your own size mark you ten next to bow for me
No, no, I said bow. That's sophie
There you go, pro. This is not tired. Okay. Look I feel like I could watch it is all good
Like this is amazing a few moments  alright
So please what are you doing? What do we talk about but?
What you're saying makes this much sense zero when you get out of my dryer?
Yeah, that's impossible. Sophie Magic is a real one
Sophie
So hey where'd she go have you guys seen shit ah?
Ah he's  dying
Mother it wasn't real Magic guys. Who's fake by four real doctors. I'll miss you
Where did they go?
So yo everyone left. Yeah, it's just me little old logan
I have that event that I'm leaving to go to about an hour at which point up one of my job
I god put on my sexy clothes a little is oh
Yeah, but I forgot to tell you I'm freakin tired. Oh. God that actually got hurt
I got four hours of sleep last night
Yeah, I don't feel a little lethargic. Low lacing my God no down to be lethargic and lazy cuz I gotta get 600
Sexy level achieved was Gucci. I'm dabbing again dammit. Yo real talk though yo, yo. I'm just saying
Yo, and I got a buddy come here bro. Yes, my boy
Good we look I'm az look really good, bro. So while it's walking. You're out I
Noticed something what happen here?
do Wanna
Explanation for this applies bro. You dude. Honestly. That's all you need is
My YouTube like you gotta sacrifice for the beauties of people is watching bros. We get another gases will gain
That's nearly same  Mexican guys
everyone
Because you literally have no idea what you're saying
What up, what I'm Japanese yes? Oh?
Bro, we're looking good for all looking fire fire acquittal
Our cars outside. I tell him to wait more yeah
Whoa the manager Jeff was being a little aggressive
I don't know why suave and I are about to go to we've got to clean up, bro. I'm talking girls here
I'm talking girls there to prove homicide off we get
Yo, why you keep stealing my things this is my thing and I know you walked in my house while our soft in the chest
Disk, I do it also. I want to know how you expect to clean up that with this row
It was even worse this with that and it
friendship
I'm not helping you what I'm not helping what I'm not helping you these English
Wiki do
Not subscribe to in the family now let me do it ladies man.  use that one
If you bitch fucking  right, why?
