zombies zombies
did somebody say zombie oh my goodness
look at all this shopping we can do hey
bitch wait retired nerf gun fight oh my
god incoming call oh hey Jenny how you
doing
let's go shop hello everyone my name is
mess yourself and look at me I am so
fuckin awesome look at that shit I've
got fucking a horse mask but anyway
today we are playing some Dead Rising 3
as a little horsey horsey I got the Xbox
one obviously on their release and I
took a while to have this video out look
at me with mr. cuddles
yeah welcome everybody to play Dead
Rising 3 yeah sorry it took so long with
this video I just wanted to make sure I
completed the game before I uploaded it
so yeah I'm not going to show any story
stuff but there is a lot of lot of stuff
to do in this zombie apocalypse with
side missions so let us commence this
video baby
ok guys there is a garage just across
the street from here where we can pick
up any vehicle we want so we have to
quickly run over there without getting
hit or let me just see oh ok there's not
many there's not many ok we can make it
we can make it have I got a melee weapon
or yellow I'll come here bitch okay the
way I see it we just run over there mr.
cuddles protect me protect me mr.
cuddles aw shit get away don't touch me
Hunt roll mr. cuddles roll mr. cuddles
Hey Oh make sure nothing bad happens to
you get away from me zombies mr. cuddles
chair to protect the day bitches ok
here's the garage ok
get away get away if we go to these
blueprints we can access a vehicle but
we can't do it while zombies are here
mr. cuddles help me don't worry Brandon
I'll forget to get away from Islam is no
one detached mr. cuddles and Brandon mr.
cuddles to the rescue yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah take that bitch take that
bitch okay I love you mr. cuddles but I
don't think you're working
let me use my mellow weapon are my
mellow weapons is a sledgehammer with
grenades boohoo bitch go go take me
alive look up powerful this weapon is
boom bitch boom bitch boom bitch ma ha
ha ha ha
where is it where is it where is it
where is the vehicle that I need no is
it this way is it this ah get away from
me zombies are crap I spawned in the
wrong vehicle for fuck's sake oh there
is I'll get away from me zombies but go
away but goodness sake is so annoying
alright wait I have to find this bloody
vehicle again I think it's cool yeah
there we go Terry ah go quickly
get in it's too dangerous over here it's
too dangerous there's so many zombies
here get out get out get out get out ok
so at the moment we are driving over to
a rampage side mission which are these
really cool side missions oh crap is
that the road oh crap oh crap oh shit
well this is awkward
oh crap I'm on fire oh shit okay I think
the side mission is just just around the
corner yeah here it is - just through
that door wait a second where I think I
hope I'm in a freaking 6 star oh my god
legal as a nap clothing oh my god yeah
that's some kinky shit right there man
yeah look at all this shit huh you got
what's that hair trimmers you've got a
sci-fi/fantasy outfit oh my god it's
like my weirdest sexual fantasy haha
this is so funny get away from he's on
me get away well I wonder what other
funny stuff they've gone here what's
this gems oh my god a massage ha ha get
away from me zombies I want to pick up
the massage oh my goodness let me pick
it up get away move oh shit my hammer
broke mr. cuddles pick up the massage oh
shit shit
I think you know what we're gonna do
with this dildo guys come on zombies
take my dick take my goddamn horse it
dick take my big big horse dick yeah
yeah you love it you love it ok enough
messing around with the sexual store
lessor let's fucking do this
mission our man okay ah I wonder what
mission would be in a fucking sex room
Oh what the hell
what is going on oh my god why they tied
up you all right like I'm gonna calm
their nerves look at me I'm some fucking
whores dressed up in a woman's outfit oh
my goodness oh shit
oh crap what's going on I like the look
of this I don't know Thank You mr.
Goodson that door is not open again
until you start being a little bit more
obedient what are you crazy it's kind of
the right mate to me oh my god oh my
goodness he's got a gun shaped like a
cock okay I'm really of my comfort zone
now
come here little motherfucker you think
you could break me your motherfucker
Oh puncher I will punch it oh shit look
it's cotton breathes fire Oh My gods you
can't defeat the horse of man take this
motherfucker take this motherfucker do
you think you could rape me all right
get up get up get up oh my god can I
pick up that Johnson phone yeah yeah
pick up pick up pick up the dancing
phone him with his own I know a second
what am i what the hell was that all
right I really didn't want to do this
but I have to bring out the big guns mr.
cuddles
yes branded I'll help you whatever good
mr. cuddles help me bring out mr.
cuddles yeah there we go mr. cuddles go
take him help me mr. cuddles i'ma go
what the hell oh my God he's riding me
oh my god who do you think I am a horse
I say we just finish them off with this
assault rifle that I've got just
sprained chime ladies any dead time you
fucking pedo
oh my gosh shooting Rockets harvest cock
this is really weird
Oh KKK yes oh my god that was really
hard oh shit I'm I have to cut that out
that was very
oh my god blue balls kind of foolishness
oh my god I think he came oh he
definitely just came what the hell is
that
what was that white stuff Oh My gods
well that was a very interesting side
mission I guess we can now look I've got
an achievement there we go Erik you can
be free be free my friend speaking of
the girl I don't think I'm gonna free
you just yet yeah yeah mr. cuddles this
morning mr. Cardoza morning
take my teddy dick you bitch oh I'm just
kidding go you can be free come on go is
everything all right
oh my god yeah you would be dead
actually oh wait hang on a second Julia
has joined that is so cool is she gonna
follow me now awesome wait give her item
yeah
look at me giving them mr. cuddles yeah
look at me Brad I've got a girlfriend
now yeah you do mr. cuddles I'm proud of
ya I'm proud of ya now you find some
food or some shit otherwise I'm gonna
die look at my health my health is there
in the top-left
Ryan corner what's this weapon blueprint
a cuddly bear what the hell oh my god
let this and nothing there's another
bath and another bear look mr. cuddles I
find you a girlfriend yeah man I've got
two girlfriends Julia and mrs. cuddles
yeah look at me yeah Oh mr. Calo is just
so pretty
oh yeah baby but can I do anything with
this bear um freedom bears I'm pretty
sure that's not why I just picked up
anyway let's just deal with it was this
oh my god what the hell is this mrs.
gallows got a friggin upgrade Oh My gods
look how big this shit is how does I
even make any sense
how's it steady back on any bigger what
is this oh my god mrs. cuddles Jesus
Christ get out of here you've got done
zombies look at me just moan them down
with this wheelchair look at this shit
oh my god Julia Julia No
Oh My gods
Julia oh shit Julia I get away get away
get away get away Julia Oh My gods
Julia wait a second mr. cuddles mr.
cuddles what the hell
Julia I trusted you forgive me mr.
cuddles and you couldn't even survive
mr. cuddles we had so much history we
had so much history mr. cuddles yeah I
welcome everybody to blame Dead Rising 3
yeah yeah mr. cuddles is Hornet mr.
cuddles is born and to take my teddy
take your bitch food I'll make sure
nothing bad happens to you get away from
his Lamas
no one's attacks mr. cuddles and granted
mr. cuddles to the rescue me yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah who could mean we're not
gonna cover it now yeah you do mr.
colors Friday
well what's the point in living I mean
these dead take me some peace
take me there's no point in living
anymore without mr. cuddles mr. cuddles
okay that got really emotional so it's a
new day motherfuckers and we're gonna do
one more rampage mission this video is
actually getting quite long but I
enjoyed the last one so let's do another
rampage mission get away from me zombies
okay oh my god what the hell's going on
is it for the store could you open it ah
yes everything stops when a fucking side
mission happens alright here we go
Oh what's going on here food I need some
food oh shit
what the hell is that oh it's disgusting
what is that oh my god what oh ah what
the hell
No
fired celery oh my god oh my god oh my
god this is disgusting
what the hell what is wrong with these
rampage missions oh my god she's gone
crazy she's gone crazy oh no don't you
oh my god oh my god oh my god what the
hell oh shit I'm in trouble now
oh crap yeah I'm calling you fat oh my
god what the hell did I get into I'm in
trouble I'm in trouble oh crap oh no oh
my god look up blood I am what the
hell's going on what the hell is going
on quickly die die die die XP yeah bitch
oh what's that oh my god she's throwing
up with me that's disgusting
eat eat eat eat eat I'm about to talk
about to die eat eat eat eat eat quick
quick quick crash no attacking me oh
crap alright I need to finish off this
guy I need to finish her off come on
baby come on baby we can do this shit
okay one more hit you do it one more hit
should do it come on come on come on
boom yeah you're fat woman what the hell
is this I can't wait to see this shit
what the hell oh that's disgusting I
like to throw up yeah because he kind of
did you just bought what is this
oh this arm will throw up call me a pig
you fucking gum I'm gonna I'm gonna
start uh-oh oh shit oh crap disgusting
what what did I just play what the hell
is going on what did that just happen oh
my god oh my god achievements and now I
don't think opposed to be alright anyway
guys gotta end this video here this is
pretty much for a long one it's probably
my longest video but anyway if you want
to see more Dead Rising 3 because there
is so much more that I haven't shown you
like that's all there is this so much
more I'm not even I'm just scraping the
surface but anyway please leave a like
if you want more and tell me in the
comments and I might think I do some
more actually because these are really
fun that game but anyway I wanna thank
you guys so much for watching and I will
see you next time
