Hi everyone. So, it's been a little while and I have a lot to talk about
but today I want to talk about creativity. Again.
So while I've been taking a little break from making videos,  I've been travelling for work,
and I've been focussing on my mental health
and just generally trying to create an atmosphere of supportive self care, etc., etc.
But in that time, I have also been SnapChatting a lot. My SnapChat is rosiannahr.
and I use SnapChat a lot in general, but I feel like in the time that I was away,
I was using it more as a vlogging place, whereas before, I was using it as a, I don't know,
supplementary vlogging place.
I was talking a lot about the way I feel, and the day-to-day progression,
and just what's on my mind, in longer and longer SnapChats, in a way that...
Yeah, I think that replaced the space that I usually use this for,
and I don't think that's a permanent thing, I think that's just a function of it.
But it had me connect to a line of thinking connected to my dad.
It made me think a lot about something that my day used to do, and something that I think I
learned from him or picked up from him, I don't really know that it was a learning point, I think it was more of a...
sometimes potentially not great crutch, in some ways.
So quick aside for those of you who are new here, my dad passed away nearly 5 years ago
and that means that a lot of my thinking is informed by that discussion, is infomed by grief,
but is also informed by a sort of perspective on that relationship and what I've learnt
that I think is partly due to adulthood but is also due to having
a distance and a certain completeness to that relationship
that yeah, that informs that sorts of thinking.
My dad loved technology, particularly Apple, he always got very excited when a new product came out,
and he was always about new and interesting ways that technology creates and fills needs in our lives.
and the way that we work with technology and sort of work against technology
but particularly work with technology. I think he always saw technology as something that enabled a lot and made a lot possible.
Of course in some some ways I saw a shift in this, where he had once been a expert on computers.
Around 2000, 2002, you suddenly saw the job market change and much younger people were hired
and there just weren't the positions for him that there had been
he wasn't in the position of power that he had been.
Because despite being someone who knew computers very well,
and knew project management on computers very well, he just couldn't
quite speak the language people were looking for,
he just wasn't quite the age that they wanted, like they wanted to be able to mold employees
or grow employees and he didn't quite fit that description.
So it was a bit of a shift, I think, looking back on how, yeah, how technology almost
replaced him in some way, or replaced the space he used to occupy.
It didn't crush his love of technology at all, but I was thinking about his love of gadgets
because he used to have a really good approach to technology and need for it
but then as he was able to do a bit less, found technology to be this sort of
excuse for what he wasn't able to do and I found that I mimicked that in my adolescence
and part of that comes from being able to have access to technology
and access to the internet and things like that
But part of that is also evident even if you don't necessarily have the money for it
and kind of spending beyond your means in that respect
because you somehow put an object, put this thing in your life,
as the thing that is going to make other things possible.
So an example of that is that I very much always thought that having a laptop meant that I would
be able to write more and create more. And in fact, to this day, I still write the most creatively in a notebook.
I struggle to think in the same way when I'm typing that I do in a notebook.
Now of course having a laptop has made a lot of other creativity possible,
And that's kind of the flip side, um, of it, it has given me a different form of connection,
it has given, maybe, the breadth of my creativity a different angle.
But it has not facilitated that writing in that way that I thought it would.
It has done wonderful things in terms of what I didn't know it was going to do.
I guess it hasn't taken away that need to motivate myself rather than creating it from something external.
Now that's not a universal thing, of course if we are able to get people
lights so that they can study, or write, or draw, or whatever it is in the evening
who don't have access to that at the moment.
If we can get them materials, that is a different situation.
But the thinking that I think I see more and more, and that is reinforced by advertising
and maybe lifestyle focus culture, is the thinking that I won't be able to do x thing,
until I have y thing. And so we, again, become the adverts for this weird formula.
Towards the end of this life, and we didn't know that it was the end of his life,
but but in that period, especially of the last few years,
I got so frustrated with him because I would find my dad just, just coming home having bought this other
ridiculous, weird thing. And often it was cool software, it was Dragon Dictate, it was Rosetta Stone, it was
this thing that converted records into mp3s, there was great suff in there, but it was this,
in retrospect, trying to fill this void of what we can do and what we can make possible,
this feeling that purchasing something as the same as doing something.
It's something that I've just had to be so, so cognizant of, and so aware of,
like, it's so easy for me to creep something into my head, like, 'oh, maybe I'll get a vlogging camera.
Because that will make vlogging more possible.' I have more than enough options to do more vlogging,
I have, I am so fortunate, I am so privileged to have access to so many different things,
so then it just comes to me recognizing for myself, actually, that's not the issue.
The issue is time management, the issue is prioritizing, the issue is, ah, willpower,
the issue is x, y, z, it's so many different things, but it's not the thing itself.
But I think it will help me become a better creator, not just on YouTube,
but across my approach to everything, every aspect of my life,
if I stop pretending that having something will solve my problem because I'm not in that position of like, dire need.
In many ways I feel really weird making this video because I feel like I'm not -
had I made this video maybe 3 or 4 years ago, it would almost be more valid
and it's sort of something being like, "oh, I'm on the other side of this and I'm realizing that
you don't need all this stuff to make loads of videos'.
So on many levels, I completely get it if you choose to dismiss me out of hand.
For many of us, we replace action with purchasing, and of course purchasing is an action in itself,
but we see that as doing the task. And we see that as completing the making.
And I don't think that that is always the case. I think that there is something that can facilitate something else
that can make that making possible, but I don't think that it is, in and of itself, a making,
and I think that's the weird little conclusion that I've come to. Through some line of thinking,
my dad, and then me, in many ways mirroring that behavior, saw the buying as the making.
It just wasn't. It's a weird little world, and it's not the number 1 priority,
it's not the number 1 problem, but I think that being able to disassociate myself from that line of thinking
has made me a much less materialistic person and has made it possible for me to
to make all these steps towards that enlightening, that albatross. And just living with less,
and living a more open, a more open life in so many ways.
So that was today, I would love to hear your thoughts on this below, feel free to completely disagree with me,
and really of course feel free to run wild with any thought, but my, my main question is
for you, have you ever been at a point in your life where buying and making have felt like the same thing,
and your general thoughts on that, I would say. That's where I wanna end it today,
Um, I hope you're all doing well. I'm really hoping that now I feel more like,
up to it, you know? Space camp is back on,
we'll see how it goes, I might see you tomorrow but I might see you in a week. Who knows, just keeping you guys on your toes.
There's a lot of rhyming going on, completely accidentally. I'll speak to you soon. Bye!
