Oh boy! *smack*
Jake Paul, what the f*ck are you doing?
Ohh, ohh.. ohh my.. ay-oh good morning LOGANG whats popping?
It is a good day as usual
I did something today that I haven't done in a while can you tell what it is? SMASH!
Just kidding I'm a virgin :'( <_<
But I did work out though here's what that looks like
*jack hammer sounds*
 
WOO! Feelin good!
We got my boy Brendan on the tracks. Say what's gucci
We got my boy Logan Paul two.
What up Logan?!
MERCH CANNON AYYY, LONGANPAUL.COM/SHOPS
We got my boi Evan. yahh!
Oh wait a second-
I don't know I'm sorry you really need to listen
*Evan jumps in* OHH *Evan falls* oh.
You totally ruined that.
We got my boi Evan.
Yo you can't jump from there. You got socks on. *slappin cardboard Evan*
Oh no ay!
Come on that's you bro *damn slappin that n---- again*
Oh yo oh hold up, now you gonna cause problems bro?
Ah f*ck you!!
Oh yeah fuck you Logan Paul
How's everything? How's your ear?
Fantastic. Good.
How's your girlfriend?
Don't have one. Awe join the club.
*crying synchronously* :'(
Is that water? Please say that's water on your head.
Nope. That's sweat.
That's f*cking disgusting.
That's called hard work.
What do you know about that?
OW! F*CK me OW!
That was definitely not worth it.
Yo. Can I put life on pause real quick?
My man ordered a burger.
Yo Evan this is huge. This is one pound.
This is bigger than your face bro!
Yo this is nuts!!
I don't know what it is, but like seeing this
makes me want to break a printer
or something. (whatever floats your boat)
*silent*
Don't you mean a plate?
Noo!
I mean printer. YAAAA!
WOOOOOOO
DIE PRINTER! DIE!!!
WOOOAAAHH!!!!!!!!! WOOOO WOOOOOOOOOooOOOO                                            no
Welcome to the LOGANG everybody!
If you haven't subscribed hit the button because we do epic stuff.
Ok I think that's enough of that.
*Twelve seconds later*
Took a shower, cleaned up and stuff and I don't know what happened but Evan actually fell asleep.
*snoring*
kid sleeps like-like *snap snap snap snap*  that so quick and he's a heavy sleeper too (random squeak)
*snoring*
So, we're gonna play a little game. It's called 'How many taco shells can we put on Evan while he's asleep?'
*snoring*
*funky music consisting of trumpets and electric bongos*
(Giggling)
We got six
Hello, how are you?
We got you some tacos, eat the body my friend  I know they pretty good!
I ain't cleaning that up.
I didn't put that on you. *LESHKICK*(rekt)
OOOOOOOOOOW! What's your deal bro?
**SLAP**
What's gucci bro?
You good? You good bro?
Yeah son! Down with the BEST BRO!!
YEE!
You mess with me bro? Your gonna get fitted.
You're gonna get- UGGHH!! Jesus Mother. Ughhhh
UGGHHH!!!
Evan you're hurting me.
Evan you're hurting me.
Evan (ded)
Yo, what did I do? *squeaky sound*
Oh God! *RAWWWWRRR xD* AGHHH!!
Hey. Hi buddy.
Its Kong he still looks so dumb.
I know Kong its not as good as you.
Oh hi Maverick!
Real Life Kong likes Fake Kong.
I know I'm sorry about the cone it's Ayla's fault.
Bye Maverick. Yeah guys if you saw yesterday's vlog Ayla
removed my dogs uh balls
without asking.
Not a cool thing. Not a cool thing at all.
I know puppy you can't reproduce but your still my guy.
AND you have 2 million followers on Instagram.
OH, LOOK WHO IT IS! Oh that's just great that's just freakin great.
I'm mad too.Take this Ayla go remove his balls.
Oh oh! Good for you he doesn't have any because he's a stuffed animal.
Listen to me Kong has been going to the...Oh
Kong is perfectly fine I've been taking care of him.
Yeah except for the fact that HE CAN'T MAKE BABIES!
Literally humans are on Earth for one f*cking reason.
And what is that Evan? To make babies.
Exactly.
You didn't tell everyone that you were cool with this.
I mean look.
Heres the thing...
I may have made the appointment. Kong look...
Nu-nu- nu-no.
Nuu nu
No-no nu-no no
*NUNUNUNUN INTENSIFIES*
NU!
If Kong...
If Kong were to reproduce I'm not even kidding Logang,
like his puppies could sell for 20k a pop, 25k a pop, 30k a pop or even a million dollars a pop.
So then if you could sell it for that much.
Then why did you make me make this appointment.
I didn't make you make this appointment.
I'm a Logangster bro.
MESS WITH MEEE
Ow, what the front door.
its wacky over here for su-  *gasp*
Ayla look a plate Kong my colleague is going to grab you real quick.
Ayla open your eyes.
That was a pretty clean break.
OMG! Why would you do this on your bed?
 
I don't know...
 
You have to sleep on this!
And smash on this.
Wow, thats gonna be a pretty painful smash
im not gunna GIVE A F*CK
Hi baby how are you?
Mwuaahhh
How's the wound?
No, no honey no!
Don't worry baby, we're gonna get you fixed soon!
Yeah man, I gotta find a place that'll fix the yeti.
But also I thought, why not like customize it out and deck it out while I'm getting my car fixed
im just hoping the lady that hit me has like insurance cause if she
doesn't that'd be like fuck that
i figure after I find a place and we can like
also customize it at the same time kill
two birds with one stone neither bird is
Maverick though anyways man let's go
driving
Yo logang I want to say one quick thing.
We are*random noises*
we are so strong right now guys
we are popping like 5 to 7 million views
per vlog we just hit 9 million subscribers.
We are well on our way to 10 million the
the fastest growing channel on YouTube also
cool cuz my brother's right below me and
we're about to literally set history
like break record the first YouTube
channel to hit 10 million subscribers in
one year. vlog it BRO every day 365
Vlog straight! 10 million is good to be in the Logang.
yo another car accident the airbag came
out dude he's so disappointed this guy
is this guy ok
oh my god what is it with
me and car accidents I'm not even kidding
guys
it happened one second before Brendan
rolled the camera it's really good
scared dude it happened right in front
of them yeah that was you guys I'm the
first car in this line there's not like
it happened right in front of us I don't
like thank God that wasn't me I'm so
glad they're okay yeah she's just scared it happened 
 right next to them OH MY GOD right
it`s like I thought I thought my
car was that this is what I'm saying
guys like this there's a piece of the
car really good as well like I was
saying when I got in my like ''accident''
things get so much worse man
dang. this vlog just took a really serious turn I'm
glad everyone's okay he's fine just he's
just disappointed yeah I'm seeing this
happen like literally right in
front of us and both of these
cars are totaled ,
guys Brendan and I
just heard a boom looked to our right and this car
steaming airbags everything that
this is nuts
alright let's let's let's
get back in the happy vlog mode
but I never
want to hear you complain again it could
be much worse we're going to fix you it's going to be okay and I get it were sad we're lucky and we're blessed
Gorges house right now with my
cardboard cutout let's see how stupid he is
sup g
yo yo
what are you pointing at
Brendan what the hell is he pointing at
yo. what. whats so funny what
are you.. laughing at bro what are you laughing at
George. what the fuck dude
why did you hit my poster sorry
I didn't
know that was opposed to everyone's
actually Hugh what the f*ck now we're at
my friend Mark
's house hopefully he's a
little bit better of a friend and
doesn't punch me in the face yeah all
LOGAN!
Why aren't you wearing any shoes bro?
Is this the Mannequin Challenge?
(Plays music)
(HORN)
Are you kidding me bro? ARE YOU KIDDING ME!!!!
COME ON!
STOP STOP!
You know it's a cardboard cutout,
What The F*ck. bro Why did you hit my poster?
I wasn't....
Real life Logan bro. :)
(intense Music)
(Holy sounds)
(Laughing)
I come heres and give's Mark
it's a picture of a HORSE. why would I want a horse in my apartment. oh I don't know
cuz all your girls are horse o
o a It's a literally a stupid a stupid joke and terribly wrong
I know you like horses so I got you this
picture oh yeah haha good fun that's
Im the only horse!!
(Horse sound)
(Laughing) Good fun!
That's what it is with the boys also who is
that? Who is that?
Wait what this is Jacquelyn. Is that you name right? Jacquelyn actually. How do
you spell it?
J-a-c-q-u-e-l-y-n, just call me Jac. just call
you Jac. That's a boy's name.
No without the K it's a girl oh that's
kind of cute. Funny story guys we've
known each other for how long now? Uhh three
years no. Yes. Nnnn. Want to see a picture of when we first met? NO! JAC!! NO! NO don't put it in the..
it in yet it no no no no no no one whose
decision was that to actually put it in
the cut hair no I was disgusting I was
so gross
yeah I was sweating like a
wildebeest yeah no nice reference I don't if they sweat but fact check do wildebeest sweat
FACT CHECK wildebeest do not sweat, wildebeest do not sweat.
anyways yeah we'll get into how we met
maybe future down the line Oh yo yo yo
to prove to you that she's cool check
this out well I don't know what's going
o i dont know whats going on here but like apparently maverick has
found love you guys kiss dude
o hes using tongue. HES USING TONGUE.*get sum* get in there maverick.
AHHHH AHH SHIT HAHAHAH. Dont scare him
my boyfriend is really sensitive oh wow you guys move fast man Jac if you look over yonder
what do you see over there a cute little guy napping he's napping right,
 second time today
Evan what are you doing? let him nap. No lets not let him nap, lets play a game called how many tacos we can put on evan
noooo just let him nap! do do dod do do do. 6! why you so sleepy today bro. why you so annoying today!
aren't i annoying everyday. Welcome to Logan Paul Vlogs
make sure to subscribe
yeah she's cool she's cool but you know
what make you even cooler here ya go here ya go
LOGANPAUL.COM/SHOP
oh boy jake paul. THE FUCK ARE YOU DOIN. steping to me u fucking peasent I will end your career and stop making stupid ass songs and calling out  Kendrick Lamar  and post malone doesnt want to be part of your shitty music
ah YouTube sorry ah instagram @loganpaul if yalls wanna follow me there
but then i see this see this video about logan, stop talking shit...
Bro what are you talking about? right?
so I click on the video I do want to
address of the situation with Logan
what situation we've been good bro and if you don't believe me here's the survey watch I am indeed gud bro.
obviously judging
by the title and thumbnail I'm just
playing y'all I mean not really
YOU SON OF A BITCH YOU CLICKBAITED ME AND YOUTUBE
okay ah it's okay guys you know it's all
about the views and subscribers I mean
if you're not in the logang though
like does it really matter and all of a
sudden I see this clip of like a
paparazzi uh with Logan on the street
Logan starts talking to the paparazzi
right it's basically talking a little
smack about me not like my parents are
p*ssed off at me for the neighbors they
were well they were Jake that's an
actually factually actual fact by the
way let me just TMZ Jake catch you out
of nowhere bro like I love TMZ I respect
them I was just going to the doctors for
me they call me other no and if you
watch the interview you can see I'm
being hesitant with my answers because I
was afraid of this exact I was saying
that I was a loose cannon
he's a loose cannon right he's a
loose cannon
Logan you do have a fair point you call
me a loose cannon you want to call me a
loose cannon yeah yeah yeah okay
Jake's a nuke he says he's a nuke not a
loose cannon I got news for you Jake
paul you might be a nuke but I am more then that
I DESTROY ALL WORLDS BRO I TAKE PLANETS AND DESTROY THEM
you'll see like whatever you're dropping
big explosion what I destroyed the
planet
yeah I don't know I don't know if this
is serious I don't know if Jake's gonna
start beef or what but I do know our
saying I love that kid sometimes with
that said though guys that's the vlog if
you do not have your merch yet join the
movement you know what no no no no it's
not a movement it is a revolution not no its not u buying merch doesn't end world hunger or racism and poverty so dont  buy my stupid fucking shirts
even kidding guys we are changing the
world you guys are thinking so
independently and different thinking
outside of the box not listening to
society telling you what you can and
cannot do it's a beautiful thing guys
and you're representing it and wearing
it in the merch it's stupid if u beleive what i just said because how does someone telling u to wear something make u  a different thinker and independent
for that in the description or LOGANPAUL.COM/SHOP because I am a sellout piece of shit
and if your not subscribed well u fucking idiot join the second worst thing on YOUTUBE
 
hi logan here and I am not sorry for destoying your eardrums
