So I literally woke up for my surgery not knowing if I had two testicles
Good morning, logang. What's up? Here's the thing? We got good news. We got bad news bad news is guys
I think I'm getting sick. I feel like an infection coming out of my throat
But the good news is  as a low gang for another day
 still the strongest and fastest growing channel on YouTube guys
You know if you're watching right , and you go down boy down. What do you say good morning?
What do you want from her ah fuck you did me and my thing I was gonna say if you're watching right now and you
Are not subscribed for some reason was pretty crazy, but this is my monkey
Huh?
oh
Fuck me sob.  don't know what happened this morning guys song is being weird we had an incident like 10 minutes ago
Oh no, calm. What are you chewing on Maverick static on your tuner Mavericks better right in front of him, bro
Don't take it personal Maverick. He doesn't know he doesn't mean it no. He's teasing. He's a punk. He is trust me
You got to stop bro. I can't have you chewing on our birds feathers from they ever take this back
Okay, Tyler tries to reason I'm whispering  because I don't   wake up my new roommate. Oh. God. Hey, sorry
  did I wake you up oh
Great now he's awake. I'm about to head to set   valley girl before I go
I want to give my boys   cigarette other companies to watch you while you sleep. That's not wha?
Never get ever known always looking closer. Don't 
If you guys follow me on Instagram at Logan Paul if you want to follow me there you'll know that this morning
I  break your board bro. Literally. I'm just sitting in my troll. I guess I'm standing don't get 
I'm just I'm messing around and doing stories and stuff. I'm bored Mickey
Everything good. I'm good a funny thing is if you make the mess you created up
So Mickey's nearly back again if you new to the channel this is the movie
I'm shooting called Valley girl coming  next year.  played a character Mickey
He's in shock everyone knows it, but yo here's what   as the digital creator rest
I'm gonna mix content on Facebook instagram YouTube blah blah and also as someone who is an actor always wondered I go
Why don't act as vlog like it's such a such a big audience to show me you can connect with so  people you can
Do so many things if you do whatever you want and now now I understand vlogging on set is hard man
You guys have seen it. I'm here all day  like since it's a big movie. I'm not able to record some stuff
So then I go home, and I'm like you don't have a vlog is
Hard for me, but I'm  a baby bad bitch, and I'll work harder. Go make it happen for me
We are here in the actor green room. We got danny. We got alex we got Jesse. We got Ashley
we got 
 smash that  skipped you admit. You're mad bull shift quickly close
What are you watching ayla little video effective? Yeah, how cute is this kid? This kid right here?
Yo, should I fly him out to la fly the kid out to La?
Danny said yes, how old is he yurei is probably please definitely height
This might be the movement fly that kid out to la hey. Do you need help cuz you look like you need 
 yeah, I'm a lobby. I'm go ahead and help you for not in the scene. Oh
So friends welcome to set what are you doing? He really put that tongue  in your mouth   in mine. Oh
That wasn't logan saying that was yeah, definitely logan
Question can different cities you see yeah, I actually go for it. I feel  she's definitely. Oh,  not much
I do it you got a nail up there you got you got a nail you go you Maverick keep going
Dude your book  office building. Oh yeah, you're really a star, and I'm glad I wasted my thank you guys
, no, there's no academy. I believe that you're going to be a movie star.  is my prediction. I mean I
Mean you  I mean say no alice okay. I mean your eyes you guys
Do not know this this was my first vine collab
And I remember time when he had two thousand followers on Twitter, and I like oh guys like eight hundred
He said to me. I was like well, you know ton of followers on Twitter. He goes one day
Maybe you'll have two thousand followers on Twitter
Balian
yo, that's good the point in the moral of the story kids if you had dreams believe in yourself and believe in those dreams because
One day you might be on a movie
Maverick
Thanks a lot when ayla Evan and I walk around we are literally this
Is crazy because I'm really tall it was like really short have a super sure I mean you know
Totally well what  you saying well?
Wake them chloe. They're trying to get quick by you oh
 
Gangster  me Chloe when my boys  visited me on set the . We got the low game
Yoga you know  love the low gangsters visit me on several. That's just something  
Isn't there someone you want to show me ayla?
What  not here? You don't get long anymore?
Baby come here car. That's my way come on ayla. Just because of yesterday's prank yeah
Fabulous, no, I know that's a strong opinion that's false. Oh my God where it look  
It's out way farther than usual right now. Oh that tongue is out so far right now. Come on puppy
I'm Gonna go show you off yep
Yup, she has a heart now
The world's cutest puppy go what's the Bennet? What's your deal?
Just like his daddy going into hair and makeup
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah make no mistake. That's not chloe's dog. My dog just trevor. No my dog
So I'm jealous like doctor. Are you there be bringing Sonic?
 and also young doggie. I do have to go to set or goodbye my boy. I'll see
Listen I don't know. I'm colorblind bye, okay
We're spending a lot of time just sitting around so I choose to sit in a wheelchair and do
Everyone more on your mini, raise your , okay. Go ahead
 panties the Maverick underwears are released yet, so we can both just shut the stuff
nice Little addition to the family if you guys have watched my movies are thinning starring ah
 me about your experience in summer. It's been great. I accidentally wandered to set and then they use me
Oh, yeah, what is that true? It's true. Yeah, well must be nice being a medicine just came   a movie
Thank you
I got
What ready ready chloe what are the movie that we're shooting? You know no one  me
 walking look at there's my feet to prove it. I'm walking ok guys. I'm not gonna Lie
It's getting dark out the sun is setting right now in the vlog  just like to me anyway
Not nearly being what it needs to be bro. I gotta deliver. We're growing faster than anybody looking
I'm restless bro, and it's been slow  set today. So I need a little action in my life
I was walking with Ayla and Evan earlier and made me think I was a go  is really short
Evans even shorter I bet they weigh the same evans pretty solid it would be dope to have them fight each other
I'm talking like put them both in a ring given both boxing gloves
and then just duke it  bro and the prize could be like
Probably no prize, but I might as I have them do it, but they're gonna do it
Hey guys reaction time okay before we get into this guy's 
 kid zircon the one who sang this song, okay, you are my year 
You means the world to me. Thanks, buddy. I'm glad to be your hero anyways
He made a follow-up video that says I got featured in Logan Paul's blog
What's up guys? It's very fun hearing it slip and fall for me in a  videos. That's my boy
I don't even know what to say I guess I might cry  listen jerk on you,  cry to cry
Oh my gosh, you let a few people wipe your tears with his hair so it's soft hair. It's just logan Paul that just
Though listen guys just low gangster you guys understand. I am just like you. I'm just like evan
I'm just like Brendan the only difference is I have a massive dick
And here's the door for I guess. I'm regular a little different
so happy dude
It's kind of insane to think about you to read big. Well. I like you a lot
I'm gonna fly us  hang out with us for a day
So get ready is there kind you're coming here bro anyway vital reaction Josh ?
 that . I saw that yellow galoop. Is that what glue?
I'm in an 80s movie, bro. I don't know what a galoot is. I just say you had it for a little against you 
Good. I wanna come back, bro. I need you back. Yeah
You guys okay? Here's why this is a big deal
I'm going to talk about stuff that the internet  not know  and that is very personal nate, but like well
It's midnight alex. We talked about you know he's different
fine number One bang
 me one
Gotcha bud
oh
Lastly   one more time for all the times thankful oh my God
You look so young. How did they all had facial antigone?
you did that facial hair or
You didn't have  either the first time we met I walked up and what did you say to me?
I was like damn   and I was like damn you're smaller
We've been best friends ever sitting by number two. Oh
Wait,  the ?
Yeah
That one went down in the book salad, Tommy
your first thing that was my first like viral viral app  like a
Million competitive millions of views on Facebook  I visited him he was at the dwarf world game Santa's hanging out in Lay
You want to be in a body on me mind? ? Yeah, sure no that lady. Oh breaking out at oh. Yeah
She's like you shouldn't do that, because they're our parents decided to put a dwarf
Yeah, we understood the concern but like it's a bunch of dwarves  don't see dwarf tears
These last two are the tell-all, but specifically the last one, but this one. He got messed up on it
Yeah, I threw him
So far, and it was down a hill let me
Let me let me start from the beginning
We had a concept if you gonna throw me obviously
And I'm getting these cushions from my lawn furniture that had his mom comes downstairs. What are you doing all the lawn furniture?
No, no put those on the grass to go to room.  had a safety man. Yeah, I was like mom
He's Gonna throw me lady some land. Oh no, no
Not a single you guys do this
Okay, so I    brother my cousin
Can you catch them can you catch me the doubles like I'm gonna come flying in I'm spinning spinning. He's spinning for Wasps
I'll spin full  elders like I need to slow the fuck down but y'all know I don't do that
You don't do that. Only one faster you let go I'm flying in the air   luckily  in their arms
They perfectly you know
Last second is back on your 
Faceplace wait like hard as I let go  said  myself
He's gonna hit the ground so hard. I mean visually out when like us to what you always like man on  first. Oh
Look anything. I guess  so top heavy with a head
dwarfism yeah, I  bad I
I don't figure though
No, oh my cuz they said I'm going to catch you broke we had trust issues after that. We did uh some trusted
 was the last one I've never
Told this story on the internet before and if I have I've forgotten and I'm really tired yeah, I
Don't know watch carefully
Seemingly innocent you wonder why I went like this when he fell on my chair like that. I feel like
That was an ode to my right testicle. Which is now, and I'm not kidding when I say this
Fifteen percent smaller I'm literally missing
15 percent of my right testicle
Because of this vine that wasn't  funny. It wasn't here do I say I was like your dwarf still
Oh, we're Gonna put a godzilla
Mask on Evan I'm Gonna get up at 6 will be right up down
But I didn't do my research
Table had a single post right so when I went to jump off it like some bugs bunny cap and I started running and if
You  the frame by frame you'll see me going 
There's just a lone chair and you guys notice I can do the splits. Oh go split the bangbang  testicle. 
Five days later. I'm compressing a lot of time. We I didn't go to the hospital. I didn't think was a big deal
I was at my friend's house, and I'm swollen at this point and one of my friends back in, Ohio
We had split up was like hey does your does your testicle. Look like this avocado.  was like funny
It does look like that like you need to a hospital basically call
Went to the hospital and you know my mom's like what do why didn't you show me?
Why I'm like mom, not showing you my balls to my bed if it's at one point. She's like
I'm not gonna be able have grandchildren.  were worried  getting my testicle removed no guy wants one testicle
I'll do it but no you don't want  doc gives me an ultrasound and he comes up  he's like okay
Good news and bad news the good news is  you're not going to have to get it removed the bad news is that you?
Have a three-inch
Hematoma sitting at the bottom of your testicle that we will have to perform surgery and remove for all the guys listening
I'm sorry. This is like you will lose a testicle or part of it at some point in your life fact
I don't know what that statistical analysis is coming from it's a hundred percent true
I can verify the day of the surgery I go in and the homeboy the doctors outlining his procedure
Yeah
We're going to go in we're going to remove the hematoma and if enough of it is dead your testicle of course  just go
Ahead and remove it I did
What would you just say that because you told me you told me I was not getting my test
 removed because well that was the original plan
But if enough of it is dead where we are gonna have to pull this so I literally woke up for my surgery
Not knowing if I had two testicles, I'm holding my mom's pant. I go mom just
Give me the details. It'll tell me if I got  she goes logan and went well
You're only missing 15 percent of your right. Oh, thank you. Okay. Yeah, this day
I have 85%  a right testicle.  more you know about Logan ball
Thank you for watching my vlog if you're not subscribed make sure to like  now
You don't feel like make sure you subscribe  merch link is in Bio
I push this every single day
And I stress that I live by it it is my life motto be different
Do your own thing follow your own path be a man that said I will see y'all tomorrow your cameras kind of far away
So I don't know if I'm gonna do the hence. I love you.  gonna make a tie I
Love Logan Merch a lot more logan rich in my life
