omg
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ay yo good morn- oh my gosh ay yo good morning Logang whats poppin? Yo, okay, first off, hi to all the Jakepaulers as well. Good morning guys.
 
 
Welcome to the Logang. I know I've probably got a couple watching.
Good mornin' guys. Welcome to the Logang
Welcome to the Logang. I know I've probably got a couple watching.
I know I've probably got a couple watching (voice starts getting scratchy)
watching me
maybe it's because they saw the roast
and they were like yo
and they were like yo
i don't know why imma Jake Pauler
I don't know why imma Jake Pauler
anymore imma go to the Logang
 
Or maybe they're like
"Yo I-I want Logan to explain himself" Whatever, hi!
Today is the day that uh the diss track against my brother goes live
And it's actually not live yet but I woke up um to find this:
Jake Paul: First I wanna apologize to my brother for the diss track.
I in no way meant to like hurt his feelings
So yeah, Jake owned up to his mistakes and he made an apology video
Which I think was the right thing to do,
However unfortunately like we already shot the music video
You already got your chance to talk sh*t
And I have not yet. Unfortunately Jakey, that's not how life works bro
And I know um my parents, they were here last night, this is what the issue was I was talking about in yesterday's vlog
They heard the song and they found out what was in it
And they told him, they texted him the night before and said
"Yo like this is what Logan's planning to drop"
And so he was able to record a new part of his vlog this morning
and be like
"I'm sorry, I'm the victim of the situation everyone just please forget that I said those things :( "
Well I-I didn't forget Jake and the Logang didn't forget
Like bro insult me but PLEASE don't insult my family
And PLEASE don't get into my personal life and personal business stuff bro
That's where you messed up bro
You don't mess with the Logang. I sai- it's a lyric in the song
Don't f*ck with the Logang
Anyways, I'm gonna shower and get the day started *pause* okay
TWELVE SECONDS LATER!!!
Still doing my own voice-overs... Okay *Wpshh*
You guys, I am SO mad. Like *grrrrrr* I'M PISSED
Alright, so the apology video is really really getting to me
Like I said, Jake's whole thing like *wpshhh* *sigh*
He punched me in the face with a-a diss track
STRAIGHT UP SAYING THE LOGANG SUCKS!
And then before I even have a chance to get up and hit back, he says "I'm sorry" while I'm on the ground?!?
In real life if that happens I still get up and punch you in the face back
But the issue is that my uh the disstrack which I don't even know if it's out yet at this point
Like, cuz I'm debating to put it out
I go so hard, cause I felt insulted.
And publicly humiliated.
I have not gotten to get that creative, uh, lyrically.
In my uh, forever, my whole life! I-I've never that had much fun writing song lyrics.
Cuz it was real.
It hurt my feelings.
So I don't know what to do guys,
Like this is like
I'm more Pissed I think now
Then I was when I watched the Actual Roast Video of us
You may have even seen all this information already in Yesterday's Vlog
This is what today's Vlog is gonna begin with
Because the first half like f*cked him up
and the middle f*cked him up
and in the end it's like "That's a Wrap".
It's like "GO BACK TO OHIO".
You can't just
take an action
and not expect repercussions.
LOGANG that's advice for you guys too like
there are going to be repercussions for your actions.
So think, think before you do stuff
I think that's where my age comes in
Im 22 Jakes 20
And he doesnt-think
now like umm
*Pause* This is rough
Hey good morning though guys...
... How you doing? *Giggle*
Yaa Yeet Yo... I almost just ran into a pole... Ya Yeet
going to eat some breakfast with mah boi.
Gotta walk backwards
because when I walk this way
the wind blows the hair out my face...
Honestly I was walking backwards
Because when I walk this way the wind blows my hair up and it reveals my receding hairline...
Oh my gosh you guys know when you're hungry
and you see all your food and your just like
YAA YEET
So Yeah guys...
you've already seen the roast video by now
maybe you havent go watch it
link in the description give it a thumbs up
I think i found a creative way to end it
still ruffle some feathers and stick up for our family
but like this is what i've been dealing with
the whole morning just like figuring out like how to maneuver this...
That Entertainment life bro *beating his chest*
Its very real guys...
Also this is Jakes...
This is his apology video ima go ahead and give it a thumbs down...
Sorry bro its just like now that ive went easy on you...
I have to release my frustration elsewhere...
...
So im just gonna - dislike all your videos...    :3 BUT
Before I do that right here baby
LETS DO IT *Wierd Faces & Background*
*Screaming Fans* There they at. I saw you screaming
up there bro...
Its the boys bro, YO
WITH THE LAMBRO SHIRT BRO!
WITH THE MAVERICK SOCKS BRO!
WE GOT MATCHING SOCKS THATS MAH BOI!!!!
THE MERCH IS REAL... Link In description... #AlwaysPlug
He's the only on without merch
Yo what's your deal bro?
What's your deal bro?
Are you a Jake Pauler? Get out of here!
Get out of here bro get out of here bro
I have a question for you guys
What do you think of the beef between me and my brother?
I looked at his video today and he was saying sorry to us and..
I know and I like how you said "us" cause your in the Logang
I am releasing the distract today so you guys be on the look out for it
I don't know about the JakePauler over here
Like I don't know what's going on with that kid
Yelloo
Oh god he pooped!!
Why  you do that? oh no
yeah
Oh yeah just a rough day man a lot of stuff going on and I gotta do some damage control now.
But I'm gonna leave alright
okay what give me kiss <3 <3
I'm going  hiking with the boiss!
Boutta make some noise
*sigh* this place it dope guys I love nature
What the f*ck I just sound like such a tree hugger
I love nature. Nah it just feel like this is just going  to be a good spot to come and clear my brain a little bit.
you know relax
maybe meet a girl right maybe smash a little bit ( wink wink) what your gonna smash a girl in the woods? I mean I'm down
Look guys a bunch or campers everyones camping
are you guys happy
yeah, would you say your "happy campers"
alright we-we should go now
they got it, they got it
I think they liked it
yeah you couldn't tell but they liked it
so we parked, we're waiting for a friend right now
she's an Indian girl, shes nice and stuff
but I got a text from a guy, like I barely know this guy
he said uh-
*reading text* Yo I think my friend saw you drive by his campsite
*laughing* WHAT?
He's a happy camper bro!
Nikita!
Guys this was the indian girl
Are you- you're Indian right?
Yes
Ok good I'm not racist, thank god
