Bennett: "Logan Paul, has made it to Tijuana, Mexico"
"We finished shooting. That is a wrap on Logan Paul VS. Hitchhiking!"
GOOD MORNING LOGANG WHAT'S POPPIN! Easy, easy, easy easy.
Why do we have a taser in Mexico?
Yo, you guys, I'm alive. Barely. I hitchhiked 1400 miles from Vancouver to Tijuana, Mexico.
And they, ugh. This episode
Is insane. SO this show is coming out in the fall, on Watchable.
And now we have to go back to Los Angeles.
At which point, I am, yo. F***.
I have so much stuff to do. I have to shower, I literally look like a hobo right now
I gotta say goodbye to all my new Mexican friends and not like New mexico the state
Like the Mexican friends I made recently
BUT I MADE IT!
Have the vlogs been okay?, You guys okay?, Bennett... Bennett, Bennett. Stop. Stop. Stop.
 
Attencion: area de blah blah blah, Logan Paul VS
See? Even in Tijuana, we always plug. You guys digging T-Shirt Tuesday?
Getting your Logang Merch?
What up Boys! You're on the YouTube.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Still not responding. Alright. Thank you dude 20 minutes later. What if I told you homie's back?
I don't want this . I think  impressive
Watch watch watch. I bet he's coming back.
Here, touch my knuckles bro, I feel bad, but like I touch just touch my knuckles Thatta boy, alright alright, alright.
Oh yeah, bye man little education lesson for you guys if you're ever crossing the border from Mexico  the United States
This is what it looks like just rows and rows and rows of cars man and Donald trump was bluffing
I don't see a wall. I mean. I'm just saying bro. I calls them as I sees them. okay guys
We are crossing back into the United States
 hope I'm not secretly an illegal immigrant now would  a bad time to find out. Here we go. This is it
Thanks, man. Take it easy, bro.
Hi, you guys  going back to Hollywood and I-
Am literally studying for an audition I have, right now. The timing on my team's part for this was subpar
BUT I'M A SAVAGE! RAAAH!
Well yeah, check it out audition is on the computer
I'm going to go in there literally looking like this like a hobo and probably smell, Bennett, do I smell?
(Bennett) You smell terrible.
But but but I have a good soul- f***. But here's the great thing about this you I'm I'm exhausted
I'm beyond the point of giving f*** like I ran out this morning. I have three 
Yo who the F*** IS CALLING ME?!
*Gasp* It's my boy! (George of the jungle!)
Is that my boy?
(George) It is, it is my boy.
Yo, I'm gonna see you tonight. I love bro, I miss you. Bro, it's been too long.
Do you want to you want to hug and- (mumble) and stuff?
 girls I'm
Like yeah, I'm going to an audition right now right straight to the audition. (George) Don't you smell like s***? (Logan) Yeah, but I- I have a good soul.
I mean, you're for sure gonna get it bro.
Yo, I'll talk to you later. I gotta study. Bye
Wait, Bennett, I'll see you tomorrow bro. Guys we're flying to Louisiana tomorrow for the next episode we're shooting. What is it?
What is it small Town Mayor small Town Mayor?
(Bennett)We literally talked a town into letting you be their mayor for a weekend. (Logan) F*** yeah, bro.
A'ight, Bennett, wish me luck on my auditon!
Hey Logan?
Yeah?
GET THAT CAMERA OUTTA MY FACE!
All right, bye! You guys,  I am literally in some random-ass hotel bath right now trying to freshen up. (Music) Brush!
First time I brush my teeth in two days. Sick.
Do I even bother doing h- nah. Here we go. Oh look at this timing sup dude hi?
What time does it say we're supposed to get there?
4:35 great that gives me 10 minutes
Manager Jeff, how  you     some work there?
It's rough in there great week right after your second look  back
Oh, wow Aldrin says sure the basses. Enjoy the future 
 guys from the last condition. I am amazing. I'm going I'm working. I'm a make team. No sleep 
I tell the  didn't like oh love done. Oh yeah um no because it looked like a freaking hobo
Take it easy dude cool boy, okay guys
I'm at the audition imagine if I get this- well, WHEN I get this role
How sick of a story this is   be  see you say hey, how  you? It's me Logan. okay guys
I'm not Gonna Lie it was
All right some auditions like I don't know they just go or this one particularly
I waited for like an hour or  energy that I went in with just
Dispersed and then obviously studying right before and not practicing with anybody is not the move
No, but the good news is your boy gets to go back to Hollywood
Yes! For like a good 12 hours because we've taken another plane somewhere else tomorrow
 home sweet home nothing like the ratchet-ass streets of Hollywood which reminds me-
I want to smoothie. you guys know when you travel  just eat like the crappiest road food ever that was me the past two days
And I feel like a smoothie doesn't matter like this
What I meant to like take a deep breath like like a smoothie just gonna revitalize me, but maybe  an excuse to smoothies obstruction
Yo, I was right, 
Haha, this is Bob and also guys if the grind wasn't already real enough today
If I already wasn't running on two hours of sleep for the past four nights in a row,  not stopping babe
I'm going to my boy Joe's house to edit help me help you that's right. Help me out you by the way
I am that crazy person in . Just sitting here screaming by myself do a camera Aka, Zaloga
What about it the grind dont stop?
No
Is the Grind and the Garden side?
That's my boy. We grits, 
 said this a thousand times with you you so good how many views the other golfers?
 that's all you say. I sort of got 1 billion  I will a little different page
But I was gonna say 10 million, okay?
Carefully watch everything everything  difficult help me help. Hey
hey, yo
This stuff Joe. I'll see you soon
my man
3 ok I saw you I saw you child I've got more friends boyfriends girlfriends the girls let's stop more friends more friends more
People are here people
Yeah, I
Have asked our guys about this yeah
Always wrap girls in your  that's how you make them. Love . Sorry. Who's that guy over there ah?
Yeah, that's our thing  right because it looks like my brother, Jake my boy
I'm gonna enter this circle here. I am
 gonna go back over here. I'll talk    the fish oh
Yo, really   take 
Oh, Britney jumping really gosh. How did you?
Look at oh hi Mark. Oh hi Mark
What's up with material? Yeah? What's your deal, bro? Yeah, which is pretty so lucky okay? I?
Don't know   thrill of . Oh, I watch big blog and you were crying. Oh
you watch the
As a click   crying, it wasn't  is it happening?
oh
No, no no no no, what are you having your hand? What do you have?
What do you have with you  I just show the camera so the camera. No just do it out. I know  John Hawkwood
yo right here with you what this kid was wearing through a boy Robin Maverick marching bands  
 
Could look blue stuff, but I'm Amanda hi. I'm sorry we  for a minute. I got the check. Oh
No, we're back here. I just called lance out. Yo were here. I see you throwing shade in the editor
It was well deserved because here's the thing if you call yourself famous bro. Wait wait
They call you how good an alex. I'd meet you back at Cocky a
Definition of famous this is hell. No just well-known. Yeah everyone in this room is trained to it. It's a
How do you have so much energy right now? I've been trapped in a car for two days. Oh, yeah
Yeah, oh, oh what oh, oh oh?
Yeah, okay, ready your turn your self-esteem. This is better you ready logan. Oh
That's not bad smart a lot of sounds much for making me something. I don't want to be. I'll I'll make you me
Yeah, you know what the best part about this get-together. I had no vlog content before  got
in like an hour
legit Rolling Rolling can't Roll the camera broke
Oh that's long ever  it might be but no congrats from the radio dish or did you guys see  ?
Amanda Jessica , yeah
Yeah, you not a jay Paul. You won't understand it seminar. Yeah
Yo, can you just tell them while you were doing this we're doing this
Guys supported me, and you're gonna support
Me to build  so Richmond. , you're
Loving it there. We go now here. We go there. We go
Thank God. Oh they got it
Supporting friends right there, I'm sweating for you, Amanda
Was a  back in Power back down
I'm going to Louisiana , but so we get said I was  ruse no
You're actually leaving yeah, bro. Why again pan it back to yourself
It was good  we got to hang out tonight guys like four minutes
Are you and I realized though, and then what we're good together. Yeah, we are good together, bro
The energy was just up  anyway. That is it for the vlog low gang it feels good to be home
I didn't disgusting I'm gonna go shower subscribe if you're not subscribe
Some low game gear screw some Maverick gear let's rock the world, baby
I will see y'all tomorrow when  clean take it easy family. You know. I love you
A
qubit
Hey, hey, oh my gosh roadblock roadblock. I got you sorry ladies. They stay beautiful if I can subscribe
