-Catchy Song playing in the back background-
Oh shit... YO! Whaaat?! No you did not!
-Intro-
Ay yo good morning logangs
*hits really high notes perfectly*
whats poppin
Huh,  I hit them notes
So yo today is a BIG day, like you guys know this
I've been hyping this up for the past week
Aaahh, For Good Reason
But, I'm not gonna talk too much, 'cause today
Is not about me, in fact it is about this guy right here
There he is
There's my boy !!
Hi...say hello
It's your day
It's Your Day! YEAH
What?...
He doesn't know
So my boy wants to look fresh right he knows it's his big day, that's why he looks wet he took a shower like 20 minutes ago
*happy music playing*
There you go Maverick
*Maverick taking a bath*
Yeah!
Get nice and clean for the big day!!!!
 
you wanna look good, you've got a big day bro!
you wanna be sexy
get a little shower in there buddy, yeah
Good birdie Maverick!
Once that dries off bro your gonna be the sexiest bird in all the land. Yeah!
So, Logan let me explain to you exactly what is happening today
Here buddy, I don't know why I picked you up
You guys have all, I think, seen this picture of Maverick
Wait, you definitely have 'cause  I've pointed to upstairs
Ha... BOM!
Ok, so look at this picture but, carefully what do you see besides the bird?
*Jeopardy music playing*
BOOM!
Did you guys see this little ankle bracelet?
I was chilling with one of my homies one day and he was like "Yo, dude what if you.."
What?
No, no, no... I was telling a story
He goes "Dude! You should remove that bracelet" 'cause, I don't know if you guys noticed...
This essentially serves no purpose
Like I was in Ohio they were like "Yea, you can take it off. This won't do anything. It's just for us to like, mark him..."
WELL, GUESS WHAT
I DON"T WAN'T MY BIRD TO BE MARKED!
So he goes "Joe, go to the vet and have it cut off and then you should put like a diamond bracelet around his ankle"
I'm like... YO, *mind blow FX*
That's some AMAZING idea!
He thinks so, too
(laughing)
So, if you look closely, Maverick no longer has his band on
Did you guys see on his right ankle? The band isn't there anymore?
What do you think? You like it?
Obviously.. Your boy had to go to the vet and get it the vet... WTF
I love sun Conures Sp? i had one before this video hit home  for me
*Cute Sponsors
Cute sponsors
