ay yo good moring logang
what is popping
it not the morning ok
it is dark outside
it is 9 P.M
and im just starting my vlog haha cool
the vlog life,let me tell you about the vlog life
I said it before and ill say it again
it is no joke guys
but I made a commitment to myself and to logang
ill vlog daily
EVERYDAY!
IM TALKING DAILY
between ...a couple things that are going on
i hahaha
between working out,meetings,auditions,
it made really hard for me to vlog
i dont want to vlog boring stuff i dont
so now its 9 p.m and im sittin here with my f**king booiiiii
and im like what do i vlog?
Arnie, should i vlog?
i mean you can vlog me bro.
ok im not gonna do that.
DAVID,should i vlog? how about maverick? OHHH
MAVERICK, what should i vlog bro?
Wait a second wheres my bro...?
hey buddy, what u say? no, i just came to ask you should i vlog?
Where you going? come on where you going bro. Maverick
no what should I vlog about?
give me some thing
What? What did you just say.... Hey the guy with the beard
Thats a good idea
ok track of what should I vlog?
you should vlog me vlogging you
actually kind of liked that idea bro
that's my boy just killed that idea bro
worst idea 2017 I'm just kidding i
actually already know it on the vlog i
have plans for days like this today I
cannot believe i have not done this yet
but I'm going to react to my old vines
huh vine just remember that app
six-second videos they looped in stone
restinpeace ok so here's what everyone's
done these vine reaction videos right
here's why this one's going to be dope
I'm not holding back all
im holding back 0
theres a lot of things that you guys
may have seen these vines that you have
no idea about this includes going to
jail having surgery caused by vine like these
guys don't even know no these are fact
anyways let's get started by the way
I've not seen these i'm not pick so I
don't know what orders
dude call me Michael phelps because we are
about to dive in(singing horrible)
HERE WE GO!!
classic Jake joke
your a dog
got ittt
you just got
we payed that taxi driver twenty dollars
to sit there for 5 minutes
yeah okay anyways oh hi mark
where just reacting some old vines
want to react to maybe one or to
mark is going on a date tonight
lhes going bowling hahaha
I'm not gonna hold you up so long my boy got smash
is a classic this is where we originated guys
this vine,seeing now the blogs,this is it
oh my God! I love the supermarket stuff
bro! supermarket wrestles
that was like that not specific but I'm
English supermarket wrestlers not that
specific vine i think i was like the
third or fourth ones with the original
one was when like jerome jarre notice me
and like shipping out to New York to
make videos that's like kind what started
it all
so that was in college, at my
college I was like the crazy kid in
campus who run around making vines
everyone hated me i can understand why
we're all just like a shot
india i don't know how it got here let's
keep watching
oh no when i flipped back
on that one
I hit my cousin in the face with the
laundry basket yes started bleeding
I hit her right in the face dude
yo this is only the beginning and I
remember I used to be so scared to do
public pranks and now I DON'T GIVE A F**k
YO !classic!!!classic pun joke
remember that was big for me to men
this is taking me back to make it a
little emotion... nah ill be fine
I miss bro! I miss my...
this was my first ever meet up
that I only know... yo that hair cut tho
not making fun Logan ok i had just meet
up at Ohio University like I look back
and I'm like oh this is embarrassing
like why did I tried to do a meat up
with like college kids but this is that
thanks guys you rock
I don't know why I did it and I just hit 1
million though let me tell people you
know just who is like I don't know bro
i'm just a boy with a dream
series called getting into cars with
strangers i was asked ...not asked, order to go
to jail
for this series actually not this
specific vine there was one that I did
where I got in the car and the lady was
like I got in she's like "GET OUT"and I as like "what?"
she's like"GET OUT' and at the time the thing
where you would go
"are you mad or nah" was like big so
after she yelled at me and say get out was  like
you mad ?OR NAH and then like the last
scene I was running away is that ok so
she was mad two weeks later bro court
summons right so i go to court they're
like you don't want you to go to jail
for three days or 75 hours of community
service
how did she figure out where you were ? BRO COME ON
i posted the vine and everyone is like
"thats trisha's momma" and I'm like f**k
does she like a local school girl sure
enough she was and yeah I ended up doing
75 hours of community service which was
good giving back
I thought you were a man bro! can I tell you something ?let me tell something I called
my manager Jeff you guys know manager
Jeff I was like dude let me go to jail
for three days like please i just do the
time like I 75 hours a lot of stuff to
I got emails to respond I got vines to make
and he's like dude you can't go to jail at
track i would have done it bro
I would have done it bro i would have
served time and it's sick probably got
like a neck tattoo just like beaver i
I told this girl she smelled like butter cups dude that's why people hate
me on my college campus like I just
sniff this girl like why did I do it
oh yeah for the views hahaha
dude you know these are all these are all
so old I almost broke my back right here
that almost hit a mailbox because i
could not be driving like this close to
Sean catch yo I thought this was the
coolest thing ever
this is like when vine first came out
attached to a plain
this was not even a funny vine this was like when I was like when I was using vine
like it was like a nice cool
bro always hurts so bad like
no no no no no no no
so cringe....why did I do that
almost got  kicked off the plane
had to talk to the pilots
cringe cringe
this one to nearly kissing my brother
what am i what am i doing what am i
doing this... oh my God
i love i love this react imagine
is like a murder came to her  house and
scared her she did "gosh"
definitely i'm making fun of this girl i
should not I know she watching my vlogs
don't forget to Like and subscribe if
anyone knows that girl please tell me i
love her
honey honey honey honey.... hahaha PUNS dude
yo my name's jeff here it is
oh this one was pretty viral,this one was also
really viral
yo this one !!!
to this day well RIP vine
it was the number-one branded vine on
the platform now in like Hollywood
business terms that means it was the
most viewed videos that was sponsored
this was a bad idea that that's what you do
when you're completely out of ideas
right and you're just like "yo I need
something I'm gonna  f**k myself up"
that was your real hair ?
yeah,no that wasn't my real hair, come on guys
guys... oh my God
I don't know bro are you done here is
another reason why I was hatted on my
college campus college safari
like I would just go
up to people and like call them out on
their flaws in an accident and I surely
an accident that's not cool but I got
the views because ok so this one coming
up this one  i didn't know who i was on the
internet I thought because I had long
hair and like maybe a little bit of ABS
I could be like a teen heartthrob this
is so cringe
this is so cringe here we go
what the f**k was I doing?
again with the conveyor belts and the
supermarket yeah they didn't like me at
these stores...one of the first vines
with warm up so terrified this one too i
you can tell  i love supermarket I got kicked
out of allot of the markets
yeah the books
hurts so bad
oh my gosh .... I cut my leg
so bad so bad like blood down my
whole leg I i did some dumb thing for
the vines.. are you watching snapchats ..arnie
I don't know how to say this bro .. get the f**k out
im just kidding you can stay
just kidding I kicked his ass out
all right next to this is me trying to
be a trying be a teen heart drop
girls feel some type of way you know how
it is and right now when i watch it I'm
just like oh this is so cringe
why
also arnie is right there I didn't really  kicked him out hahaha
why? why I keep doing this
dont tell me you hit him down... I had to
this one ! SO dangerous
I didn't check how deep the water was
and I just kind of trusted that would
backflipped me
I've done some dumb things from the vine
guys again learn from me don't be like
me live a safe like live to have
children because i feel like my moms
like me saying this but just feel like
I'm not but yeah bro that's it that's it
for the vine reaction watching I'm like
to another one on another day if I don't
have content again you'll save some for
later thank you guys for watching the
vines with me i'll send a check payable
by mail to each one of your houses
except you Arnie get the f**k out so listen
logang I know what you're thinking "logan
how can you come from making the most
epic vlog actually not even a blog a
movie hiking on the woods getting chased
by an avalanche and then make this one"
because of geared up to I was gearing up
for the weekend gearing up for all the
epic shhhh stuff up we're going to make this
week and like i said i'm working out for
like you would have  2 and as half hours a day and I
haven't been recording them because  I've been
just focus and I got this guy to help me
workout is in he's a machine
so I'm so worried and tired but before i sign
up i want to outline two things I got in
the mail one marks moms and cookies
accept check this out these are the
kinds of the hershey kisses on top will
actually supposed to be on top like that
unfortunately they all fell off listen
marks mom AK carroll high or Caroline
I DON'T EAT COOKIES OK
and even if i did i'd be disappointed in
these  you know it's not your fault in fact I have
an idea i'm going to remedy this right
now uhum you see that this is hot glue
hot-glued all the chocolates to the
cookie now the chocolate will never escape
the cookies... that's just simple math
they look at their yeah
innovating son that's a chocolate glue
gun cookie and then second off but i got
this a really cute letter from this girl
named Sofia she wrote this to me she
talked about she's an aspiring actress
here's her
oh my gosh she's so cute sofia ey
should not be watching my vlog they're
inappropriate but be I'm glad you do and
she made me this guy's you guys never
going to build a bear workshop the
American flag jacket on American flag
head band just like me Sofia thank you! this
is awesome dude i remember going to
build a bear workshop is my favorite
imma be sleeping with this forever
and a extremely sentimental cute note
that is the vlog tomorrow guys i am
hanging out with the catch me outside
girl
yeah "cash me outside how bow that"  hoping she can teach me
some Instagrams followers girls getting like
half million a day she is a savager anyways I'll
see y'all tomorrow take it fannn peace
