Yo, what is that noise?
OHH!!
YO!
YO, SHUT THE F*** UP!
No way!
No way...
*Nice Intro*
Ay yo, good morning logang, what's popping?
It is 6 Am we're all pretty tired.
I went to bed 3 hours ago.
Bro I don't know, I'm just, I'm out here bro.
We have quite the day planned, and now that's assuming we get the day started
We woke up early... well, I woke up early
And then woke Arnie up
Because we're Driving to Sequoia National Park today
I honest, I don't know what it is,
I don't know, like, what it looks like,
But I think it's cool, I think there's like trees and snow
And Taking Instagram Pictures. BUT! Listen, the point is
This trip is gonna be LIT!
Once again, I believe and this is all just assuming, we have like a 3-4 hour drive.
And then, I think we're there, and when I say "we",
I mean Me, Arnie,
My boy GEORGIE!
And, potentially some other kid.
I'm not sure, but Georgie, George Janko
We need to see if this man is up,
And also, look who is up (oh hi Mark :o)
That's Ma Boiii- Team No Shirt, let's go
Yo Yes, Bro, Team No Shirt
Why are you up right now? I've gotta ask.
Mark : What do you mean? I always get up this early.
No you did not Mark, it's 6 AM
Mark: It's Valentine's Day, bro
Yo, your excuses right now are making 0 sense!
Why are you up bro?
Mark: No like, legit I usually get up this early... :o
Wait, really?
Mark: Yeah..
Can I tell you something Mark?
George texted me and said
'Not feedlong good, gonna pass bro, everything's spinning for me'
What did you do last night?
I don't know..bro
We had fun.
Mark: It's good, as long as you had fun
It's good right?
It's a good time.
Yes so, okay
George is not coming
GEORGE GEORGE GEORGE OF THE JUNGLE!
Oh-ho ho ho!
Oh ho ho ho!
OH--(evil laugh or intensifying)
Yeah bro, so, we brought these warm coats
'Cause, apparently it gets cold there. It's snowy right?
I don't know, I don't know any of this
We're just assuming everything,
Yo, do you think my car's gonna be able to make it up?
I hope so
Yeah, me too
Here's a kicker
I let Arnie drive my car because I'm way too tired for this
Do you feel powerful? Do you feel in charge?
...Like a man driving this... machine. Yo what I was gonna say bro,
when I grab this wheel I'm just like... RAWR!!!
RAWR!!! Apparently it's not just me
We are on the highway right now
Look at the school bus... WOW!!
I'm a little nervous, but, I'm gonna take this opportunity to get some sleep
The next time you see us, we will either be dead
because Arnie crashed the car or at Sequoia National Park!
I'm hoping the latter
Please don't crash this car while I'm asleep
Dude, say something to confirm
I'll try not to
Reassuring, WOW. Ok, thanks Arnie. Sequoia National Park,
Here we come!
*Guitar music*
*Nice car pulling up with the dab*
Oh ho ho ho ho ho
Oh BOI!!
ECHO!
MOM?
Like and Subscribe to my YouTube Channel. You should delete your YouTube account.
What? Ok, guys. Arnie and I made it
Bro, how was the drive?
It was beautiful, dude. And now we're in, like I've said for the
5th hundred time. Don't know how this park works.
But I know that right now we are in, what is this called?
The giant tree, the big tree, the giant tree forest?
YOU GOT IT!
Let me tell you, uh, it is named that for a good reason.
That is because the trees are GIANT!!
I bet this does not look that big on camera
Like these trees are just kind of the mediocre trees
And no offense guys you're just, I mean you're
yeah, kind of just ok
Hut hut!
Imma put on some hiking boots
These are freaking nice, yo look how fancy they are
Arnie has a super intense camera rig as well
Tell me about the shots that are gonna be captured today Arnie
These shots are gonna be some cinematic movie quality bro
Cinematic movie quality!
Let's go!
*Music*
So we're just kind of hiking around here
and across the way we see
this tree is huge!
have you ever seen a tree that big?
No I've never seen a tree that big
Yeah and actually we're just gonna talk about it and not show you guys, sorry
Ha ha! Gotcha!!
Thats the tree across the way you guys see? Its the orange one right there and my finger is pointing at it
You guys see it? I'll zoom in in case you don't see it
You guys see it now?
It's this one right here with this like buttcrack type thing on it
Yeah, it's, are you guys looking at it?
I'm like, strictly tree butthole right now
Like, that's me
*Music*
Oh look! we found another nature butthole!
Im zooming in so you guys can see it
Can you hear it too?
this butthole makes noise
Yo thats crazy!
Looking down in there?
Logan what are you doing bro?
Im just, look at the whirlpool dude
Yo this is me trying to get the whirlpool on video
Watch, this is gonna be so worth it I promise
*Music
Ah! Its so cold bro
Aaaaaah
Oh my god its so good though dude
We are approaching the big tree
If you look to your left, you can see this massive guy oh my goodness
*Music*
This is so cool, dude
We could literally, honestly, we could live in here
I think we should ditch our lives, both of us
And me and you, just live in this tree for the rest of our lives
Carve it out a little bit,
Yeah, bro
It's cool cause I mean you can see,
Someone like, had burnt the tree to form this hole I think
Well, I mean that's not cool
Cause, deforestation is bad
I dont know why I said it was cool, it's not cool
*Laughs*
*Music*
So we're walkig back to the car, and this, this just breaks my heart
There's just a little shoe here
You know what this means dude? Arnie, some kid died, bro
There's a dead kid in these, in these mountains
It means, Im not the only one that lost a shoe in the snow
Arnie lost his shoe, also, why are you wearing these orange,
like, running shoes bro?
Dude when I came here not realize we be playing in the snow.
Yeah, it doesn't really snow in California ever..
And maybe the kid that died also didn't know that
R.I.P kid
And and also vine too
ok, so we are going to the next location and I like this
place so much that I decided to go on the hood of the car
and by hood I mean roof sorry I am color blind
Arnie, how you doing?
Arnie: PRETTY GOOD BRO!
He*k yeah bro, yeah this is pretty this is good stuff
*Logan singing*
*Logan singing*
*Logan singing*
*Logan singing*
*Real music*
break slow I am sliding I am sliding
I AM SLIDING
AH!
Yeah Ok let's do this
This is absolutely crazy we are in the second location
They have the largest tree on Earth? That's what I was going to say
The sign in front of us it says "Largest Tree On Earth"
 
 
Yo does that seem too good to be true? Yeah. How is how is that there is no way THERE IS NO WAY
This is even bigger that the butthole tree
Actually mistaken
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
