I, Donald Trump, do solemnly swear…
We had a wonderful election, didn’t we?
— 3 to 5-million illegal votes.
— We’re waiting to find out!
I inherited a mess.
...repeal and replace…
I could hold off the wall,
but I want to build the wall.
We have to build the wall.
...extreme vetting…
...destroying horrible regulations…
...maybe I wouldn’t be here,
if it wasn’t for Twitter…
I can’t believe I’m saying I’m a politician,
but I guess that’s what I am now.
“Donald Trump wants to get along with Russia!”
...radical Islamic terrorists…!
I don’t like to say what I’m doing.
Let’s keep them guessing.
...hatred and venom…
...disaster…
...destruction…
...nuclear holocaust…
...the world is in trouble.
— I’m going to this inauguration
to see the transition of power.
— My hope is that he can change
his tone and unite a country.
My fear is that he doesn’t, and
we continue to be a divided country.
— This is not the year for us
to sit down and watch.
We’re gonna be delegates, we’re going to the
convention, we’re going to the inauguration.
— As an American, I’m all for a peaceful transition.
But there’s a nice way to do stuff, and
there’s a Donald Trump way to do stuff.
— We don’t approve of Trump and
his ways, but, at the same time,
he’s still gonna be President either way.
— Are there concerns?
Yeah, but I’m not gonna be sitting
behind the President scared to death.
— We’re gonna take this thing all the way.
— Trump! Trump! Trump! Trump!
— Love! Not hate!
Makes America great!
Love! Not hate! Makes America great!
— The idea for the project came,
I think, from a deep sadness.
I knew at that time that I was gonna
go to the Women’s March in D.C.
I realized that, as an LA girl, I’d be very cold,
and I thought, well, you know, like,
maybe I could knit myself a hat.
I’m such a beginner though, I figured,
if I could knit this hat, anyone could.
In that moment, I could just really see
this sea of pink happen,
if it not just, like, a beanie with a
pom-pom, like, a classic hat.
It’s a little different,
and, of course, the wordplay with
“pussy” was, like, too much to ignore.
— And this is protection of the nation from
foreign terrorist entry into the United States.
It’s big stuff.
— What does that say?
What type of message are we sending
to our allies around the world?
A number of people with valid visas,
they got on the plane before
the executive order was issued,
and, when they got off the plane,
they were detained.
— Refugees are welcome here!
No hate!
No fear!
Refugees are welcome here…!
— I understand one’s been released,
but there's still several people that have been detained.
— All of these people here are just attesting
to the fact that what they’re doing is not right.
— This is un-American, it’s unconstitutional, it’s illegal!
We’ll do this for as long as it takes.
This is our country!
— I think we have about 40 to 50
lawyers right now at the airport.
About 25 are inside, and the rest are deployed
at the different terminals
that we know there are incoming flights from.
— A federal court in Brooklyn
granted an emergency stay
for some affected by President Trump’s
executive orders regarding a refugee ban.
— Thank you very much.
— You guys have a good day!
— I love them! I love you!
— Jobs and millions of dollars lost because
two power stations are closing down.
— Every day I get up around 5 o'clock,
get myself ready for work.
I work at the Dayton Power and Light Killen Station.
Been there pretty much my whole adult life.
I started up there right after I turned 21-years-old.
The power plant’s pretty much all I know.
I'm 56-years-old, and I'm going to
lose my job here in around 14 months.
And I'm not sure what I'm gonna do.
It's just so scary to think about
having to go to another job.
I mean, whether it's...
No disrespect to McDonald's,
because I’ll work at McDonald's
if that’s what it takes to get health insurance.
But I don't know how I'll be with the public,
after working in such a close setting in a man’s world.
It’s gonna be a lot different for me.
It’s just really sad, because I thought
the beginning of my life would be here,
and the end of my work life would be here.
I'm too young to really retire.
I'm not going to have any health insurance,
and I don't have anybody to lean on, it's just me.
We were told in November, when they
announced that the plant was closing,
that Trump couldn't save us.
So I don't believe he can.
I believe it's too far gone.
— I'm Jamie Dimon I'm the Chairman
and CEO of JPMorgan Chase.
And I was recently named the Chairman
of the Business Roundtable.
I've always deeply believed that collaboration
between business, governments, civic society,
is the way to come up with the answers and solutions
to the problems that this wonderful country has.
I've only been Chairman for a short period
of time, but this new administration,
not just the President, but all the folks who
I've worked with, have been very responsive.
Of course there's some backlash that I get,
including a little bit from my children,
but... people get this huge confusion that, somehow,
because you're trying to help your government,
you're supporting all of their policies.
I don't think anyone supports all the policies,
and the good news for y’all is that the ones
we don't support, we've been pretty vocal about.
Having collaboration, working together,
is the way to fix the ills of the country.
I did it for this President.
I did it for President Barack Obama.
I’d do it for anyone who’s in that office.
— Our classic Gallup job approval rating is one question:
“Do you approve or disapprove of the way blank,” whoever happens to be President,
“is handling his job as President of the United States?”
— We’re just early on into the presidency.
And I think we have to give him a chance.
I think it's great that he has chosen to stir things up,
and that we’re not doing things traditionally,
because, obviously, traditionally doesn't work.
And I think that...
he does some little bit questionable things.
But I think, in the end,
his motives are in the right direction.
— On February 9th, the President swore in
Attorney General Jeff Sessions,
then signed four executive orders designed
to look like he was getting tough on crime.
One called for the creation of an
anti-drug smuggling task force...
...that already exists.
Another created a succession plan
if the Attorney General dies...
...and the two people below him also die.
Trump likes executive orders.
So far, he's issued 29.
A few could have a real impact,
including the travel ban,
despite being blocked in federal court.
But for the most part, they're just show business.
Trump has signed orders encouraging
businesses to hire American,
ordering up a report on trade deficits,
and establishing a task force on rural prosperity.
Executive orders can get attention,
but Trump isn't using them to make actual policy.
For that, he turns off the cameras and pivots—
to the little-known Congressional Review Act.
The CRA allows Congress to get rid of
government regulations that it doesn't like,
provided that it acts within 60 legislative days.
Because the Trump presidency is still so young,
the CRA’s time window reaches
back into the last administration,
letting Trump and Congress
erase Obama-era regulations.
The catch?
Once rules are overturned by the CRA,
they can't be easily reinstated.
One CRA vote deleted a rule requiring oil companies
to report when they make payments
to foreign governments.
Another CRA broadened states’ ability
to impose drug tests on the unemployed,
by striking a rule that state
unemployment compensation agencies
can only drug test people whose jobs
normally require drug testing,
like flight attendants or armed security guards.
Other CRAs have eliminated a prohibition
on coal companies dumping into streams,
a directive requiring companies who drill on
public land to contain their carbon emissions,
and a regulation that asks government
contractors bidding on new contracts
to disclose any recent violation of law.
Until this year, the CRA had only been
used once since its creation in 1996.
Trump has used the law 13 times.
He can continue to target Obama rules until early May.
— My name is Andy Puzder.
I was Donald Trump's first nominee for
the position of Secretary of Labor.
When I got the phone call, I was at a hotel in
Washington, D.C. getting ready for my hearing.
The first phone call was a discussion about
the fact that the leader didn't think he had the votes,
and that, despite my aspirations
and desires and my willingness,
I was not going to be the next Secretary of Labor.
I was disappointed.
I really felt that, you know, somebody
who started out scooping ice cream,
and cutting lawns, and painting houses, and
busting up concrete with the jackhammer,
playing in bands, working in a music store,
and ended up being a successful
CEO of a major company,
I really felt that, my whole professional career,
I'd been training for the position of Secretary of Labor.
I didn't learn much about government,
I learned a lot about politics.
I learned that, even to the extent that
you think that the truth is going to matter more
than the narrative that the other side can create,
you're probably deceiving yourself.
— I'm Roger Stone,
New York Times bestselling author and pundit.
I've been a political activist and a Republican
political consultant for almost 40 years.
I think I may be under surveillance from the NSA,
actually, the FBI, at the direction of the NSA,
based on this false charge that
I have somehow colluded with the Russians
to aid the election of Donald Trump.
"The Smoking Gun" fake news site published
the fact that I had a direct message exchange
with Guccifer 2.0, the hacker
who we believe was responsible
for the original hack of the DNC document.
I'm happy to show you the direct message
exchanges between Guccifer 2.0 and myself today.
That is the full and total exchange
between Guccifer 2.0,
who is not a Russian hacker,
and me, on August 14th.
I come in on his being reinstated to Twitter.
I send him a retweet.
He says I'm a great man,
offers to help me in any way he can—
I did not respond to that.
He sends me the link to a public website
that has a turnout model for the Democrats
in the presidential campaign.
And no, I did not pass it onto the
Trump campaign or anyone else.
That's it.
Certainly doesn't constitute treason or collusion.
No one in their right mind would be
involved in espionage on Twitter.
It's innocuous.
It's boring.
It’s banal.
It’s insignificant.
Yes, I landed at Houston.
It was about 2 p.m.
I was interrogated by a young officer, actually.
He asked me a lot of things
about my parents, about my family.
He told me that I wasn't allowed to give
a lecture, and be paid for this lecture.
He said, “You will be deported by the next plane.”
As a whole, I spent about 10 hours
in this room for people being checked,
so-called “vetting,”
and, finally, I was released because of an
intervention of a lawyer from the university.
The officer who released me was a more
experienced officer than the previous one.
And he said to me, “You know, the guy who
interrogated you was absolutely inexperienced."
"He didn't know that there was an exception for
people giving lectures with a normal tourist visa.”
What was really disturbing to me, this officer told me,
“The next time you come to the U.S.,
you will have your passport, of course,"
"you will have a letter of invitation by university,"
"but bring with you the excerpt of the
U.S. immigration law to show to the officer.”
So I said, “So, I have to show a U.S. Immigration Officer
what is the U.S. law? This is absolutely unbelievable.”
— For the longest time under Obama,
I felt like the whole country has
told me how to think, how to act—
just trying to tell me everything I thought was wrong.
Being pro-life, pro-weed, pro-Jesus, was all wrong.
And he gave America balls,
he gave me the authorization to be who I really am.
— I signed a letter, along with other law enforcement
leaders across the country,
concerned about the Trump administration's
stance on immigration.
I'm being forced to, or they're trying to force me,
to do something that I can't do legally.
that I don't have the resources to do,
and that I'm philosophically opposed to.
— I don't know who Carter Page is,
I never had a conversation with Carter Page…
— ...and, the other one, Carter Page,
I don’t even know who that is…
— Carter Page—mysterious figure
within the Trump orbit, who…
— You're not a Russian agent.
— Obviously not.
It's so false, that it's hard to know where to even begin.
— What was your role in the Trump campaign exactly?
— I was a member of a... committee.
It was a team that was named
back in March, and I provided, uh...
We got together and had some meetings.
I didn't have any major role to begin with,
so I think this is something that was used against me,
where they just wanted to attack
then-candidate Trump.
— What did that consist of?
Did you write briefing papers,
did you ever actually brief Trump?
— I never actually briefed him.
And, in retrospect, I'm glad I never did.
— Do you think that Russia interfered
in the U.S. election?
— I have been so focused on the interference
that was done by, first, the Clinton campaign,
but also, now we know, with the FISA warrant,
with the support of the Obama administration.
That, to me, had a much bigger impact.
— But surely you wouldn't be approving
of any foreign government
trying to interfere with the
American electoral process.
— Of course not.
— I mean, including Russia.
— Yeah, definitely not.
— Do you think that Russia is a purely benign actor?
— No one is perfect.
No human on this planet and
no country on this planet is perfect.
One of the biggest misunderstandings is,
a lot of steps that they take sometimes,
frankly, antagonistic steps.
It's largely a reaction to steps
that have been taken on our side.
— Do you think you became a little bit of, like,
an evangelist for this idea over the years?
— That people should look again at Russia?
Frankly speaking, given the fact that there's so
few people providing this alternative perspective,
sometimes I actually admittedly, perhaps,
overcompensate a little bit by trying to factor that in.
— Is there something that you're starting
to think now—like, “Oh, okay…”
— Well, certainly, I've paid a price for that.
— How do you feel Trump's done in the
first 100 days with the U.S.-Russia relationship?
— I think he has had monumental challenges, and
I was always so impressed during the campaign,
where people created these major obstacles,
in almost all instances, based on complete lies,
about his views on Russia,
and how nefarious and terrible that is.
And yet, time after time, he had the political courage
and the moral courage to stand up and do what's right.
— Since the beginning of this administration,
we've witnessed a 50% increase
in people asking for help or assistance.
Everyday, we have attorneys that are here
in our offices, providing free consultations.
— My name is John Dean.
I was Richard Nixon's White House Counsel
when the arrests at the Watergate occurred.
I find it pretty amazing that President Trump claims
that his predecessor, President Obama, wiretapped him.
First of all, the procedures to do that are
so difficult today, unlike during Nixon's time,
but the fact that Trump would claim that Obama
would use official government channels to do it,
and think that couldn't be resolved
almost instantly, is absurd.
And it has been resolved,
and it was an absurd charge.
It was, in fact, just a defamation by
one President against his predecessor.
Nixon and Trump are two very different men
with a lot of similarities.
Nixon is a little bit more...
probably sneakier than Trump.
But Trump, I think, is going to be
right up-front about what he's doing.
But their mean streaks and their
revenge streaks are pretty visible.
Immigration pulled me aside and asked me
if they could ask me a couple of questions.
I said, “Okay, sure.”
“What’s your name?” And I said, “Muhammad Ali, Jr.”
And then they asked me,
“Who gave you your name?”
I said, “My mother and my father, duh.”
And so, they asked me what was my religion.
And I was like, “I’m a Muslim, but what
does that have to do with my travel?”
— In the meantime, they rolled me into another room,
and the first thing they asked me was,
“What is your religion?”
I just happened to have pictures with me,
to sign autographs,
and they said, “Oh! You’re Muhammad Ali’s wife!
"Oh, okay! Okay, you’re free to go.”
And I said, “Well, where’s my son?”
And then, after that was up,
about four or five minutes,
they told me I was free to go.
We were invited to Washington, to Capitol Hill,
to speak about this whole incident.
They took me into a room,
and asked me the questions again.
I presented my ID, he said,
“Oh, I’ve gotta call somebody.”
We were like, “Who do you have to call?”
— Homeland Security.
— He said, “They’re checking something, I dunno.”
And then they said my ID was not valid.
So that’s when I presented my passport.
But if I didn’t have a passport, I wouldn’t
have gotten back to Fort Lauderdale.
— This is total harassment, total discrimination,
totally out of line and totally unacceptable.
— And totally unconstitutional.
— Yes.
— I had been in Florida for a couple of days,
and I’d gotten on my plane to come back
from Florida at 2 o’clock on that Friday.
And when I landed at 5 o’clock,
I saw a series of text messages and emails from
friends of mine from all across the country,
asking me things like, “Are you okay?” and “Is it true?”
It’s not remarkable at all for a
new President of another party
to ask the United States attorneys and
other political appointees to resign.
What was completely unprecedented was the idea
that 46 of us would be asked to leave by midnight.
So for me, effectively, it was seven hours’ notice.
What saddens me is, I think it just
reflects a lack of appreciation,
and I don’t mean in the “clap clap” sense—“yay.”
But I mean a lack of fundamental understanding
of the profound work that U.S. attorneys do
in their communities completely apolitically.
— But you know what, you’re asking me
a question, and I’m gonna answer it,
which is, the President—
I’m sorry, please stop shaking your head again...
— I am Mike McCurry, the former
White House Press Secretary
to President Bill Clinton from 1995 to 1998.
I think, sometimes, the press corps doesn’t have a lot
of sympathy for the role of the Press Secretary.
Senior staff wants you, sometimes,
to be out there and
be much more aggressive in dealing with
hostile questions from the press corps.
— I know the pool needs to get to
the vans, for the signing.
Thank you, I’ll be back tomorrow—
We’re going to be five days in a row
this week, ladies and gentlemen.
— But at the end of the day, you have
to maintain your own credibility
and make sure that the press corps sees you
as someone who shoots straight.
It’s actually what the American public needs.
— ISIS is making a tremendous amount of money
because they have certain oil camps, right?
They have certain areas of oil that they took away.
I would bomb the shit out of ‘em.
—  Are you feeling better now?
— The battle in western Mosul has been
a more complex fight than in the East.
The neighborhoods here are older, the streets
smaller, and ISIS is more heavily dug-in.
But under the Trump administration, the U.S.-led
coalition has increased bombing in Iraq and Syria
to an all-time high,
since Operation Inherent Resolve began.
The site of the airstrike has been sealed
off to media, and an investigation is ongoing.
We tried to get as close as we could,
but the area is still an active fight zone.
— What’s that sound that we hear now?
— American?
— American.
— In a Skype interview,
the chief American spokesperson in Baghdad
told us there had been a loosening
of the rules of engagement,
starting at the beginning of the year.
— The change was that, if we have eyes on
the target, with our forces on the ground,
the commander who is on the ground
with those eyes on the target
can call in the airstrike without
going through a strike cell.
— The spokesperson insisted they’re still doing
everything they can to avoid civilian casualties.
But this change in policy is part of
the investigation into what went wrong.
Right now, the details are still sketchy.
Even the number of air strikes that took place isn’t clear.
— So that’s your street?
— Miassar Hamdi says an airstrike hit his home
the morning after the March 17th attack.
— And his daughter’s foot was partially severed.
Some people say that this new
American President, Donald Trump,
is following more aggressive strategy
with these types of airstrikes.
— So far I approve of what he’s done,
I feel like he is keeping a lot of his promises
that he had mentioned during the campaign.
I really personally appreciate the executive order to...
it’s not a full repeal, but starting
to work with the Affordable Care Act,
and making it so that me, as an American citizen,
can make my own choice about healthcare.
— We were very close.
It was a very, very tight margin.
With no Democrat support, we couldn’t quite get there,
we were just a very small number of votes short.
— Everybody remembers the first 24 hours. You do.
I went to pottery class, a ceramics class.
I remember sitting there,
being like, “Fuck…” you know?
Like, you just remember, everything’s, like, in slow-mo.
— What kind of cancer do you have? 
Like, what’s the specifics of yours?
— Intraductal carcinoma.
Well, I was stage one when I was diagnosed.
And now, I’m stage three, because it spread.
— Oh, so it spread since then.
— It went into my lymph nodes.
— So you’re a person who actually buys your
healthcare through the Obamacare exchange?
— Yeah.
— Because you and your partner
are small business, right?
— Yes.
We say you should know your fisherman.
Just like you should know your farmer,
you should know where your food comes from.
We want people to understand that
salmon are a really special thing,
it’s not something to take for granted.
— I know that Alaska is a crazy place to get insurance,
so what’s that process been like for Obamacare?
— I had to choose between two
insurance plans at that time.
And it’s since gone down to one
insurance plan on the Alaska market.
— I’m on an island with you.
There are 3,000 people who live here,
there’s no roads in and out.
But you have a little hospital, so how does
that work for you in terms of healthcare?
— Well, it means we have to leave to do big stuff.
There’s no oncologist, there’s no cancer doctors.
This fall, I had surgery down in Seattle.
And then, we came back here.
And that’s when we realized that Moda was not
going to cover our facility here as in-network.
And so, we’re realizing that, to do chemo,
the cost for us was going to be significantly
less if we went down to Oregon,
where my parents live, and I’ve a lot of friends
and family that can help take care of us.
— You had two insurance options, then?
— We had two insurance options at that point.
— And the one you had chosen didn’t cover the hospital
in your hometown for a chemo, specifically.
— For anything.
— Okay, and you didn’t know that
when you picked it, I guess.
— Call me crazy, I just made the assumption that
one of the two insurers in Alaska would cover…
...Alaska.
— You had to move to Oregon to get your chemo done,
until you could change insurance companies?
— Exactly, yeah.
Once I was able to switch from Moda
to Premera, it became in-network.
— Okay, so then you were able to come back here?
— Yeah.
We face a lot of uncertainty, right?
Like it could go well, it could go bad.
It’s always changing.
The rates go up every year.
Now, we’re in this sort-of
hostile regulatory environment,
where the administration and the party that has power
doesn’t like the current healthcare system.
I think there’s a disconnect between this,
“We’re Republicans, we’re pro-business,”
but what they mean is “We’re pro-big insurance
companies making big bonuses for their CEOs.”
They’re not talking about businesses like ours.
— I’m talking to you of course, now,
after Trump is President,
and it does feel like things are a little bit different
and a little bit more uncertain with healthcare,
but, before that time, would you have called 
yourself a satisfied Obamacare customer?
— No.
We kinda fell out the frying pan into the fire.
I mean, before that, I was complaining
about Obamacare all the time.
It’s not a solution for the long-term,
it doesn’t work for a lot of people,
it doesn’t work for middle class people,
working class people who actually work,
and then are, like, hampered by these big premiums.
Makes it hard to run a business.
— You don’t want to see it repealed and replaced?
— I want to see it repealed and
replaced with single-payer.
This is, like, the great “emperor wears
no clothes” in American healthcare,
because everyone’s like
“Sweet, let’s just expand Medicare.”
And the Democrats and the Republicans are like,
“No! We have to make it work for the insurance
companies! No! The government can’t be involved!”
That’s all, like, horseshit.
— How did it feel for you,
when that health care bill failed?
— Relief.
Well, for us it was just like a very tangible relief.
Sweet, you know?
We can continue to get along and invest in
our business and be self-reliant as a family
and not have to do a GoFundMe just to pay
for Malena’s deductibles and all that.
— I'm Kyle Beaman.
I work at Rexnord Bearings in Indianapolis, Indiana.
I'm a quality control inspector.
I've been there just short of 10 years.
They announced that they were
shutting down the facility.
They're going to move it to Monterrey, Mexico,
and also to McAllen, Texas.
The real bad part was, was when they told us
we were going to have to train
our counterparts for that job.
I'm sorry, you should’ve had a better contingency plan
when you thought that you were going to
move this plant just lickety-split to Mexico.
I'm not mad at the Mexican people.
I'm mad at Rexnord corporation.
If I was to speak to Donald Trump,
President of the United States,
I would say, “I'm happy you were elected."
I'm happy that you are able to help Carrier,
I wish you could’ve done more for my company.
If you can’t help us, help somebody else,
because you said you were going
to bring jobs back to America,
and I'm going to hold you to it.
— Tonight, I ordered a targeted military strike
on the airfield in Syria, from where
the chemical attack was launched.
— He’s maybe, I think, gone a little too far
in some of the things that he has done,
specifically the airstrikes in Syria.
So I’m kind-of on the fence
right now with where he's at.
— Has this place always looked like this...?
— No. God, no.
In the heyday of that mill, 10, 15 years ago,
this place would be wall-to-wall.
You come in here on a payday,
and they’d be three-deep at the bar.
I mean, it used to be a mill bar.
30 years ago, I was the mayor of this joint.
If I wasn't working or sleeping, I was usually here.
Right now, the economy’s not that bad in the country.
It’s just the steel industry is in real trouble,
and that's mainly due to imports
and trade rulings and things like that.
Barack Obama wanted to do TPP,
we had a huge fight against that,
we were totally opposed to that.
We haven't had a lot of help from the government
when it comes to trade issues for…
God, going back to before Bill Clinton.
— But the plan is to reopen part of it
again, that's not helping?
— Oh, it's helped some, yeah.
But it's still, you know, 40% for sure.
— You were rehired?
— Yes.
Yeah, I went back in January.
— You were…?
— I’m still laid-off.
— Oh, you were not rehired.
— No.
I got laid-off  on the 29th of January in 2016, so…
— You remember the day.
— Yeah.
It's been... 15, almost 15 months now.
Just trying to get by, day by day.
That's all you can do.
And hope you're going to get that phone call,
and get called back to work, but...
you just don't know.
— That's the hardest thing.
— Mike, do you remember what it was like
when you got the phone call?
— Yeah, I think I did a somersault, actually.
— Do you feel secure in your job now?
— No, I do not.
I’m just worried about working in
the steel industry right now.
Just because they hear that we're opening up,
we are, but it's just a really, really, really small
amount of fortunate people that get to go back.
— How does it make you feel
when the President steps up
and takes credit for manufacturing jobs coming back?
— We know well enough, after years and years
of doing that stuff,
nobody's going to do anything in 100 days
that's gonna make something happen here now.
He comes in, he signs an executive order,
and everybody thinks that just made it a law.
I think it's pretty obvious, by the election,
that a lot of people don't really know
how the government works.
— My name is Heather Higginbottom,
and I was the Deputy Secretary of State
for Management and Resources
at the U.S. State Department.
Some of the most important jobs to fill across
the government are the deputy positions.
These are the number two positions
across all government agencies.
When you don't have your senior positions filled,
then you're not really being a good steward of
the federal government and its resources.
Every transition, every administration goes
through a process of trying to fill positions,
and it can take longer than people want.
I don't think it's a crisis, but we really
need to see movement happening quickly,
and we need to see people in these positions
empowered to to carry the policy agenda forward.
— This 100 days has been...
it's like he's gambling
and playing with our lives.
I have hope.
I have hope for an impeachment process.
— Things are happening so fast.
Something happens almost every day.
So I've got notes, but I've got 14 items on
the “pro” side, only one item on the “con” side,
and that's in pencil, because that's
health care and health care is not settled yet.
But we're only 100 days into a four year term.
I think Trump’s on track to be one of
the greatest Presidents of history.
— Let’s get your Trump shirt on.
— If President Trump is watching this,
just keep on keeping on.
— And also, I would say,
always stay in touch with the people.
Always.
— Since inauguration, we received a lot of donations.
We have new drums.
We have the new blueprint for
the band room downstairs.
I don't pay attention to any politics.
I think the main reason why is,
I’m a college student.
I have to do my work, I have to get it done.
— I will say this is probably the most unique
first hundred days of any President.
It's exciting because, as a Republican,
you have an opportunity to—
things that I've been out here for six years trying to do,
we now have an opportunity to do,
to define government as Republican.
But it's also been filled with a lot of disappointment.
We'll see what the next couple hundred days look like.
