— My name is Darren Aronofsky,
I’m the writer and director of “mother!”
I identify with every character in every film—
you know, I made a film about a ballerina
and I was the ballerina,
I made a film about the wrestler
and I was the wrestler,
I was the conquistador, I was the math whizz.
You pull on things you know,
things that mean something to you,
and you try to put those feelings and emotions
into the character to bring them to life.
I had an idea,
and I was thinking about the home invasion genre
as a really kind-of interesting place to start.
Everyone can relate to having company over
that doesn’t, you know, doesn’t agree to leave.
At the same time, you know,
I was having a lot of frustration
about the inaction of people
sort-of dealing with our larger home—
not just our individual home,
but this planet we’re on together.
And I decided to sort-of think about
the planet as a character.
Myself, Jennifer Lawrence, and Javier Bardem
went to a warehouse out in East Brooklyn
and we taped the house out onto the floor there
and we just started to talk and go through the script,
and the last two weeks of that three-month period,
we shot the entire film, like, with single takes,
without any costumes or anything,
and then cut it together and had sort-of
a two-hour long version of the movie
so that we could sort-of see what
was working what wasn’t working.
What I like in movies is to be rocked, you know?
It’s very much…
it’s for people who want to go on that extreme ride.
And someone at Paramount was like,
“No, no, this isn’t a ride in the park.”
“It was built outside the park by that really weird guy,”
“and he’s daring you to come on it.”
“And you only really ride it if you take
your hands off the handlebar the whole time.”
Any time you blink or close your eyes,
you haven’t had the full impact of the film.
The last third of the film is
something we called a fever dream,
and the film kind-of goes
from zero to 60 faster than a Tesla.
My mentor always said,
“You’ve either got to make them laugh,
cry, or scare the shit out of them.”
I mean, this is a movie, you know?
We’re competing with so many things—
when you make movies, it’s just like, you know,
people are watching TV right now, you know,
with their phones out or their computers,
and double-triple-screening at the same time.
I wanted to make something that was
just, you know, punk rock, in-your-face,
filling your ears, filling your head with ideas,
filling your heart with emotion.
And hopefully we drop a few jaws along the way.
