— The days leading up to
Jeff Sessions’ DACA announcement
were doubly anxious for Luis Cortes Romero.
Not only is he an immigration attorney
with DACA clients,
he’s also a DACA recipient himself.
Before Cortes turned 2-years-old,
his parents left Michoacán, Mexico,
and migrated without papers to California,
where they still live today.
He grew up in the San Francisco Bay area,
playing in punk bands and exploring his Mexican roots,
but feeling, always, like an American kid.
— Do you remember Mexico at all?
— I do not.
I do not.
And so, I imagine Mexico how anybody else
would imagine it who has never been there.
And so, it’s interesting because some of
my peers who were born here, raised here,
will tell me more about Mexico than I know about it,
and have experienced more of Mexico than I have.
— Cortes was in law school in Idaho
when Obama announced DACA in 2012.
Before DACA, he wasn’t sure what
he would do with his law degree,
but figured it would improve his opportunities.
It was DACA that allowed him to start working
at a law firm as soon as he graduated,
and five years later, he landed his first high-profile case:
Daniel Ramirez Medina,
the first DACA recipient detained
under the Trump administration.
— Characterize for me what it’s going
to mean if this goes away.
— I think it’s going to be devastating.
It’s going to feel like such a loss.
In so many different ways.
And that loss is going to be coupled
with a tremendous amount of fear.
— We are the immigrants!
— We are the immigrants!
— The mighty, mighty immigrants!
— DACA has a lot of moving parts,
but it essentially does two things:
It promises young undocumented immigrants
with a high school diploma
and no significant criminal record
that they will not be deported for two years.
And, in that same period, it gives them work permits.
Even though they pay into Social Security,
DACA recipients are not eligible for Medicaid,
financial aid for college, or any other federal benefits.
— Of course not.
Of course not.
— On Tuesday morning,
shortly before Sessions made his announcement,
Cortes met with Cinthia Gutierrez,
a DACA recipient who lives just outside Seattle.
— Where you are working at now,
is that something that they have brought up?
Like, have they brought up your work permit before?
— I did tell them, like, “Hey, this is going on,”
“if this does end up happening,” you know…
“I might not be able to work anymore.”
The owner just told me, like, “Don’t worry about it,”
“we’ll worry about it when it gets here.”
“I really don’t want to lose you
as an employee, you’re valued here.”
I was just like, “Well, I kinda wanted
to mention it, because… it worries me.”
— No, yeah. Yeah.
— It scares me.
— When the time came for
Sessions to deliver his statement,
Cortes watched from a reception area in his office.
— The effect of this unilateral executive amnesty,
among other things,
contributed to a surge of minors
at the southern border…
— Oh my fucking God.
— …that yielded terrible humanitarian consequences.
It also denied jobs to hundreds
of thousands of Americans…
— What this announcement creates is a time bomb.
It’s a time bomb for Congress to act,
otherwise people are going to start
falling from this program—
whether in six months or, you know,
whatever that looks like.
It leaves all of these Dreamers, their lives,
in the hands of political parties
that they have no participation in.
And that’s a very, very scary thing.
Fuck.
