Hey guys! I'm Teagan I'm Sam and we are the Rybka twins. Welcome back to our channel.
Hold on, hold on I'm Sam and I'm Teagan and we are the Rybka twins.
Wait I'm really confused. What's going on here?
TEAGAN! SAM!
Today guys we are doing a yoga challenge with the Johnson twins.
I'm Tiarna. And I'm Lindsey.
Welcome guys! Welcome!
So we thought we'd change it up a little bit; I think it's the second time that Sam and
I are going against each other in the yoga challenge
So I with Tiarna today and Sam's with Lindsey.
But before we get on the video guys make sure to subscribe, if you haven't already
And give it a big thumbs up, if you like it!
And don't forget to click that gray bell next to the subscribe button so you guys are notified every time we post a video.
And we'll also be announcing fan of the week and Instagram shoutout at the end of the video
Probably by now you know how the yoga challenge works, but just in case
We have a series of poses that we haven't seen yet
The first pair to get into the pose and hold it for 3 seconds wins each round.
And the pair with the most points at the end obviously wins the yoga challenge
Alright, first pose
Which one do you want to be?
3, 2, 1 GO
Are we doing it?
Yes
Woah
Okay we'll try, we'll try.
I don't know if it's gonna work
3, 2, 1 GO
Nooooo!! It's that last second!!
I'm trying so hard!
So that one was much harder than expected
I think we all thought we'd like, get up there great.
So you guys are still one up. Alright next pose.
Ok let's just give it a go.
3, 2, 1 GO
I think we got it, did we get it?
We got it!!!
Woah!
Now we have to really concentrate.
3, 2, 1 GO
Looks like another simple one
3, 2, 1, GO
Woah!
3, 2, 1 GO
Who got there first?
Sam
Yaaaayyyyy!!!!
Are you serious?
Oh, wow
3, 2, 1 GO
My brain can't even work this out
3, 2, 1 GO
Sam and Lindsey won!
Whoooo!
You guys were really good as well though, like we were on par, the whole time.
We have to do a rematch, maybe sometime
Yeah, rematch, we're definitely gonna have one.
We are here tomorrow!!
Alright guys so that brings us to the end of the video, we really hope you enjoyed watching.
Comment down below which yoga pose was your favorite.
This weeks fan of the week goes to Ella Haines and Freya Allen
Thank you so much for commenting on last weeks video, if you want to be shouted out next week all you have to do is comment down below on this video.
The Instagram shoutout goes to lilykdann11.
Thanks so much for liking our photos on Instagram.
And remember guys we post on Squared every Monday and we post on our channel every Thursday.
So we'll see you guys, next Thursday. SEE YA!
