MONA: This is Sana, the capital of Yemen.
Now in the grip of sectarian fighting, that most recently left more than 130 dead in a suicide bombing.
The violence was inflamed when Houthi rebels, an insurgent group that most people never even heard of
seized full control of the city in January.
MAN: Who do you work for?
MONA: The New York Times
MAN: So... you're going to call this a coup then.
MONA: Frankly, I’m not exactly sure what to call this: a coup, an uprising, a revolution?
But when the Houthis took over, the president resigned. Now the country is leaderless and divided.
By the way, this is me. I am Mona El-Naggar and I came here during the  Houthi takeover
As you can see, I’m dressed in a black abaya to blend in.
But I’m still a woman, reporting on the street, at a time when few people understand what is really happening here.
Am I allowed to shoot, or not?
So I negotiated access where I could, but
mostly I just went with it.
CHANT: Death to America!
Death to Israel.
Damnation to the Jews.
Victory to Islam.
MONA: That chant is aggressive, I know,
and the guns are definitely intimidating.
But let me explain.
The Houthis, a Shiite sect, also distance themselves from Sunni terrorist groups like Al Qaeda and ISIS.
They are critical of the United States,
but they told me what they’re really angry about, are the American-backed dictators in the region.
Wait a second.
This is a good place to explain something.
You see that bulge in this guy’s cheek? That’s khat.
It’s a plant Yemenis have chewed for thousands of years.
It's a mild stimulant, kind of like drinking a couple of Red Bulls.
Trust me, you’ll see it everywhere.
OK, back to the Houthis.
The Houthis are popular now, but they’re mostly young and untested.
They’re trying to consolidate their power, but most Yemenis have more immediate problems.
The country is the poorest in the
Arab world
and the government can’t meet basic needs. 
There’s a shortage of cooking fuel and electricity, and unemployment runs high.
But water, to be sure, is everyone’s worry.
Some forecasters say Yemen will be the first
country to run out.
In some areas, water flows
from the tap only once a month
so families need to stock up. They do it with these cans.
And the cans are absolutely everywhere.
And remember khat? Well, growing it is
a one of the biggest drains on the water supply.
The shortage is so critical that people have
given up on their government.
They are sinking their own wells and selling water from tanker trucks throughout the city.
My daughter brings water home in a wheelbarrow.
A child should be able to get an education
not get water and work.
But we don't have a choice.
And those frustrations are written all over
the walls of Sana.
Poverty, political dysfunction, terrorism …
This street artist, Mourad Sobai,
told me the Houthis can’t address these 
issues without a cohesive state. His latest
piece uses this ancient Yemeni symbol to call
for unity. But in today’s reality, that symbolism can get lost.
PASSERBY: We asked about this, and people told us it was filled with explosives.
But the Houthis are trying to bring people
together, although they're doing it on their own terms.
They hosted this convention to discuss what’s next for Yemen
inviting tribal leaders, military commanders, professionals — just about anyone.
MONA: So there are two entrances?
GUARD: Yes.
MONA: What are they?
GUARD: One for women and one for journalists.
MONA: So... where should I go?
GUARD: With the women.
Inside the stadium, the turnout was impressive.
SPEAKER: This is the people's revolution!
MONA: But to me, it also felt scattered.
SPEAKER: The nation is not a toy in the hand of politicians!
As I listened to speakers ramble on from the
podium, I wondered how an event like this
could possibly translate to any real governance.
And with opposition building, I don’t know
if Houthis, like this guy, have any idea what
they’re really up against.
MONA: What weapons do you have?
MAN: A grenade.
MONA: A grenade?
Subscribe to our YouTube channel
and if you leave questions about my time reporting in Yemen, I'll get back to you.
For now, here's more.
