NETANYAHU: Thank you.
(APPLAUSE)
Thank you...
(APPLAUSE)
... Speaker of the House John Boehner, President
Pro Tem Senator Orrin Hatch, Senator Minority
-- Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, House
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, and House Majority
Leader Kevin McCarthy.
I also want to acknowledge Senator, Democratic
Leader Harry Reid.
Harry, it's good to see you back on your feet.
(APPLAUSE)
I guess it's true what they say, you can't
keep a good man down.
(LAUGHTER)
My friends, I'm deeply humbled by the opportunity
to speak for a third time before the most
important legislative body in the world, the
U.S. Congress.(APPLAUSE)
NETANYAHU: I want to thank you all for being
here today.
I know that my speech has been the subject
of much controversy.
I deeply regret that some perceive my being
here as political.
That was never my intention.
I want to thank you, Democrats and Republicans,
for your common support for Israel, year after
year, decade after decade.
(APPLAUSE)
I know that no matter on which side of the
aisle you sit, you stand with Israel.
(APPLAUSE)
The remarkable alliance between Israel and
the United States has always been above politics.
It must always remain above politics.
(APPLAUSE)
Because America and Israel, we share a common
destiny, the destiny of promised lands that
cherish freedom and offer hope.
Israel is grateful for the support of American
-- of America's people and of America's presidents,
from Harry Truman to Barack Obama.(APPLAUSE)
NETANYAHU: We appreciate all that President
Obama has done for Israel.
Now, some of that is widely known.
(APPLAUSE)
Some of that is widely known, like strengthening
security cooperation and intelligence sharing,
opposing anti-Israel resolutions at the U.N.
Some of what the president has done for Israel
is less well- known.
I called him in 2010 when we had the Carmel
forest fire, and he immediately agreed to
respond to my request for urgent aid.
In 2011, we had our embassy in Cairo under
siege, and again, he provided vital assistance
at the crucial moment.
Or his support for more missile interceptors
during our operation last summer when we took
on Hamas terrorists.
(APPLAUSE)
In each of those moments, I called the president,
and he was there.
And some of what the president has done for
Israel might never be known, because it touches
on some of the most sensitive and strategic
issues that arise between an American president
and an Israeli prime minister.
But I know it, and I will always be grateful
to President Obama for that support.(APPLAUSE)
NETANYAHU: And Israel is grateful to you,
the American Congress, for your support, for
supporting us in so many ways, especially
in generous military assistance and missile
defense, including Iron Dome.
(APPLAUSE)
Last summer, millions of Israelis were protected
from thousands of Hamas rockets because this
capital dome helped build our Iron Dome.
(APPLAUSE)
Thank you, America.
Thank you for everything you've done for Israel.
My friends, I've come here today because,
as prime minister of Israel, I feel a profound
obligation to speak to you about an issue
that could well threaten the survival of my
country and the future of my people: Iran's
quest for nuclear weapons.
We're an ancient people.
In our nearly 4,000 years of history, many
have tried repeatedly to destroy the Jewish
people.
Tomorrow night, on the Jewish holiday of Purim,
we'll read the Book of Esther.
We'll read of a powerful Persian viceroy named
Haman, who plotted to destroy the Jewish people
some 2,500 years ago.
But a courageous Jewish woman, Queen Esther,
exposed the plot and gave for the Jewish people
the right to defend themselves against their
enemies.NETANYAHU: The plot was foiled.
Our people were saved.
(APPLAUSE)
Today the Jewish people face another attempt
by yet another Persian potentate to destroy
us.
Iran's Supreme Leader 
Ayatollah Khamenei spews the oldest hatred,
the oldest hatred of anti-Semitism with the
newest technology.
He tweets that Israel must be annihilated
-- he tweets.
You know, in Iran, there isn't exactly free
Internet.
But he tweets in English that Israel must
be destroyed.
For those who believe that Iran threatens
the Jewish state, but not the Jewish people,
listen to Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of
Hezbollah, Iran's chief terrorist proxy.
He said: If all the Jews gather in Israel,
it will save us the trouble of chasing them
down around the world.
But Iran's regime is not merely a Jewish problem,
any more than the Nazi regime was merely a
Jewish problem.
The 6 million Jews murdered by the Nazis were
but a fraction of the 60 million people killed
in World War II.
So, too, Iran's regime poses a grave threat,
not only to Israel, but also the peace of
the entire world.
To understand just how dangerous Iran would
be with nuclear weapons, we must fully understand
the nature of the regime.NETANYAHU: The people
of Iran are very talented people.
They're heirs to one of the world's great
civilizations.
But in 1979, they were hijacked by religious
zealots -- religious zealots who imposed on
them immediately a dark and brutal dictatorship.
That year, the zealots drafted a constitution,
a new one for Iran.
It directed the revolutionary guards not only
to protect Iran's borders, but also to fulfill
the ideological mission of jihad.
The regime's founder, Ayatollah Khomeini,
exhorted his followers to "export the revolution
throughout the world."
I'm standing here in Washington, D.C. and
the difference is so stark.
America's founding document promises life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
Iran's founding document pledges death, tyranny,
and the pursuit of jihad.
And as states are collapsing across the Middle
East, Iran is charging into the void to do
just that.
Iran's goons in Gaza, its lackeys in Lebanon,
its revolutionary guards on the Golan Heights
are clutching Israel with three tentacles
of terror.
Backed by Iran, Assad is slaughtering Syrians.
Back by Iran, Shiite militias are rampaging
through Iraq.
Back by Iran, Houthis are seizing control
of Yemen, threatening the strategic straits
at the mouth of the Red Sea.
Along with the Straits of Hormuz, that would
give Iran a second choke-point on the world's
oil supply.NETANYAHU: Just last week, near
Hormuz, Iran carried out a military exercise
blowing up a mock U.S. aircraft carrier.
That's just last week, while they're having
nuclear talks with the United States.
But unfortunately, for the last 36 years,
Iran's attacks against the United States have
been anything but mock.
And the targets have been all too real.
Iran took dozens of Americans hostage in Tehran,
murdered hundreds of American soldiers, Marines,
in Beirut, and was responsible for killing
and maiming thousands of American service
men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Beyond the Middle East, Iran attacks America
and its allies through its global terror network.
It blew up the Jewish community center and
the Israeli embassy in Buenos Aires.
It helped Al Qaida bomb U.S. embassies in
Africa.
It even attempted to assassinate the Saudi
ambassador, right here in Washington, D.C.
In the Middle East, Iran now dominates four
Arab capitals, Baghdad, Damascus, Beirut and
Sanaa.
And if Iran's aggression is left unchecked,
more will surely follow.
So, at a time when many hope that Iran will
join the community of nations, Iran is busy
gobbling up the nations.
(APPLAUSE)
We must all stand together to stop Iran's
march of conquest, subjugation and terror.
(APPLAUSE)
Now, two years ago, we were told to give President
Rouhani and Foreign Minister Zarif a chance
to bring change and moderation to Iran.
Some change!
Some moderation!NETANYAHU: Rouhani's government
hangs gays, persecutes Christians, jails journalists
and executes even more prisoners than before.
Last year, the same Zarif who charms Western
diplomats laid a wreath at the grave of Imad
Mughniyeh.
Imad Mughniyeh is the terrorist mastermind
who spilled more American blood than any other
terrorist besides Osama bin Laden.
I'd like to see someone ask him a question
about that.
Iran's regime is as radical as ever, its cries
of "Death to America," that same America that
it calls the "Great Satan," as loud as ever.
Now, this shouldn't be surprising, because
the ideology of Iran's revolutionary regime
is deeply rooted in militant Islam, and that's
why this regime will always be an enemy of
America.
Don't be fooled.
The battle between Iran and ISIS doesn't turn
Iran into a friend of America.
Iran and ISIS are competing for the crown
of militant Islam.
One calls itself the Islamic Republic.
The other calls itself the Islamic State.
Both want to impose a militant Islamic empire
first on the region and then on the entire
world.
They just disagree among themselves who will
be the ruler of that empire.
In this deadly game of thrones, there's no
place for America or for Israel, no peace
for Christians, Jews or Muslims who don't
share the Islamist medieval creed, no rights
for women, no freedom for anyone.NETANYAHU:
So when it comes to Iran and ISIS, the enemy
of your enemy is your enemy.
(APPLAUSE)
The difference is that ISIS is armed with
butcher knives, captured weapons and YouTube,
whereas Iran could soon be armed with intercontinental
ballistic missiles and nuclear bombs.
We must always remember -- I'll say it one
more time -- the greatest dangers facing our
world is the marriage of militant Islam with
nuclear weapons.
To defeat ISIS and let Iran get nuclear weapons
would be to win the battle, but lose the war.
We can't let that happen.
(APPLAUSE)
But that, my friends, is exactly what could
happen, if the deal now being negotiated is
accepted by Iran.
That deal will not prevent Iran from developing
nuclear weapons.
It would all but guarantee that Iran gets
those weapons, lots of them.
Let me explain why.
While the final deal has not yet been signed,
certain elements of any potential deal are
now a matter of public record.
You don't need intelligence agencies and secret
information to know this.
You can Google it.NETANYAHU: Absent a dramatic
change, we know for sure that any deal with
Iran will include two major concessions to
Iran.
The first major concession would leave Iran
with a vast nuclear infrastructure, providing
it with a short break-out time to the bomb.
Break-out time is the time it takes to amass
enough weapons-grade uranium or plutonium
for a nuclear bomb.
According to the deal, not a single nuclear
facility would be demolished.
Thousands of centrifuges used to enrich uranium
would be left spinning.
Thousands more would be temporarily disconnected,
but not destroyed.
Because Iran's nuclear program would be left
largely intact, Iran's break-out time would
be very short -- about a year by U.S. assessment,
even shorter by Israel's.
And if -- if Iran's work on advanced centrifuges,
faster and faster centrifuges, is not stopped,
that break-out time could still be shorter,
a lot shorter.
True, certain restrictions would be imposed
on Iran's nuclear program and Iran's adherence
to those restrictions would be supervised
by international inspectors.
But here's the problem.
You see, inspectors document violations; they
don't stop them.
Inspectors knew when North Korea broke to
the bomb, but that didn't stop anything.
North Korea turned off the cameras, kicked
out the inspectors.
Within a few years, it got the bomb.
Now, we're warned that within five years North
Korea could have an arsenal of 100 nuclear
bombs.
Like North Korea, Iran, too, has defied international
inspectors.
It's done that on at least three separate
occasions -- 2005, 2006, 2010.
Like North Korea, Iran broke the locks, shut
off the cameras.NETANYAHU: Now, I know this
is not gonna come a shock -- as a shock to
any of you, but Iran not only defies inspectors,
it also plays a pretty good game of hide-and-cheat
with them.
The U.N.'s nuclear watchdog agency, the IAEA,
said again yesterday that Iran still refuses
to come clean about its military nuclear program.
Iran was also caught -- caught twice, not
once, twice -- operating secret nuclear facilities
in Natanz and Qom, facilities that inspectors
didn't even know existed.
Right now, Iran could be hiding nuclear facilities
that we don't know about, the U.S. and Israel.
As the former head of inspections for the
IAEA said in 2013, he said, "If there's no
undeclared installation today in Iran, it
will be the first time in 20 years that it
doesn't have one."
Iran has proven time and again that it cannot
be trusted.
And that's why the first major concession
is a source of great concern.
It leaves Iran with a vast nuclear infrastructure
and relies on inspectors to prevent a breakout.
That concession creates a real danger that
Iran could get to the bomb by violating the
deal.
But the second major concession creates an
even greater danger that Iran could get to
the bomb by keeping the deal.
Because virtually all the restrictions on
Iran's nuclear program will automatically
expire in about a decade.NETANYAHU: Now, a
decade may seem like a long time in political
life, but it's the blink of an eye in the
life of a nation.
It's a blink of an eye in the life of our
children.
We all have a responsibility to consider what
will happen when Iran's nuclear capabilities
are virtually unrestricted and all the sanctions
will have been lifted.
Iran would then be free to build a huge nuclear
capacity that could product many, many nuclear
bombs.
Iran's Supreme Leader says that openly.
He says, Iran plans to have 190,000 centrifuges,
not 6,000 or even the 19,000 that Iran has
today, but 10 times that amount -- 190,000
centrifuges enriching uranium.
With this massive capacity, Iran could make
the fuel for an entire nuclear arsenal and
this in a matter of weeks, once it makes that
decision.
My long-time friend, John Kerry, Secretary
of State, confirmed last week that Iran could
legitimately possess that massive centrifuge
capacity when the deal expires.
Now I want you to think about that.
The foremost sponsor of global terrorism could
be weeks away from having enough enriched
uranium for an entire arsenal of nuclear weapons
and this with full international legitimacy.
And by the way, if Iran's Intercontinental
Ballistic Missile program is not part of the
deal, and so far, Iran refuses to even put
it on the negotiating table.
Well, Iran could have the means to deliver
that nuclear arsenal to the far-reach corners
of the Earth, including to every part of the
United States.NETANYAHU: So you see, my friends,
this deal has two major concessions: one,
leaving Iran with a vast nuclear program and
two, lifting the restrictions on that program
in about a decade.
That's why this deal is so bad.
It doesn't block Iran's path to the bomb;
it paves Iran's path to the bomb.
So why would anyone make this deal?
Because they hope that Iran will change for
the better in the coming years, or they believe
that the alternative to this deal is worse?
Well, I disagree.
I don't believe that Iran's radical regime
will change for the better after this deal.
This regime has been in power for 36 years,
and its voracious appetite for aggression
grows with each passing year.
This deal would wet appetite -- would only
wet Iran's appetite for more.
Would Iran be less aggressive when sanctions
are removed and its economy is stronger?
If Iran is gobbling up four countries right
now while it's under sanctions, how many more
countries will Iran devour when sanctions
are lifted?
Would Iran fund less terrorism when it has
mountains of cash with which to fund more
terrorism?
Why should Iran's radical regime change for
the better when it can enjoy the best of both
world's: aggression abroad, prosperity at
home?
This is a question that everyone asks in our
region.
Israel's neighbors -- Iran's neighbors know
that Iran will become even more aggressive
and sponsor even more terrorism when its economy
is unshackled and it's been given a clear
path to the bomb.NETANYAHU: And many of these
neighbors say they'll respond by racing to
get nuclear weapons of their own.
So this deal won't change Iran for the better;
it will only change the Middle East for the
worse.
A deal that's supposed to prevent nuclear
proliferation would instead spark a nuclear
arms race in the most dangerous part of the
planet.
This deal won't be a farewell to arms.
It would be a farewell to arms control.
And the Middle East would soon be crisscrossed
by nuclear tripwires.
A region where small skirmishes can trigger
big wars would turn into a nuclear tinderbox.
If anyone thinks -- if anyone thinks this
deal kicks the can down the road, think again.
When we get down that road, we'll face a much
more dangerous Iran, a Middle East littered
with nuclear bombs and a countdown to a potential
nuclear nightmare.
Ladies and gentlemen, I've come here today
to tell you we don't have to bet the security
of the world on the hope that Iran will change
for the better.
We don't have to gamble with our future and
with our children's future.
We can insist that restrictions on Iran's
nuclear program not be lifted for as long
as Iran continues its aggression in the region
and in the world.(APPLAUSE)
NETANYAHU: Before lifting those restrictions,
the world should demand that Iran do three
things.
First, stop its aggression against its neighbors
in the Middle East.
Second...
(APPLAUSE)
Second, stop supporting terrorism around the
world.
(APPLAUSE)
And third, stop threatening to annihilate
my country, Israel, the one and only Jewish
state.
(APPLAUSE)
Thank you.
If the world powers are not prepared to insist
that Iran change its behavior before a deal
is signed, at the very least they should insist
that Iran change its behavior before a deal
expires.
(APPLAUSE)
If Iran changes its behavior, the restrictions
would be lifted.
If Iran doesn't change its behavior, the restrictions
should not be lifted.
(APPLAUSE)
If Iran wants to be treated like a normal
country, let it act like a normal country.(APPLAUSE)
NETANYAHU: My friends, what about the argument
that there's no alternative to this deal,
that Iran's nuclear know-how cannot be erased,
that its nuclear program is so advanced that
the best we can do is delay the inevitable,
which is essentially what the proposed deal
seeks to do?
Well, nuclear know-how without nuclear infrastructure
doesn't get you very much.
A racecar driver without a car can't drive.
A pilot without a plan can't fly.
Without thousands of centrifuges, tons of
enriched uranium or heavy water facilities,
Iran can't make nuclear weapons.
(APPLAUSE)
Iran's nuclear program can be rolled back
well-beyond the current proposal by insisting
on a better deal and keeping up the pressure
on a very vulnerable regime, especially given
the recent collapse in the price of oil.
(APPLAUSE)
Now, if Iran threatens to walk away from the
table -- and this often happens in a Persian
bazaar -- call their bluff.
They'll be back, because they need the deal
a lot more than you do.
(APPLAUSE)
And by maintaining the pressure on Iran and
on those who do business with Iran, you have
the power to make them need it even more.NETANYAHU:
My friends, for over a year, we've been told
that no deal is better than a bad deal.
Well, this is a bad deal.
It's a very bad deal.
We're better off without it.
(APPLAUSE)
Now we're being told that the only alternative
to this bad deal is war.
That's just not true.
The alternative to this bad deal is a much
better deal.
(APPLAUSE)
A better deal that doesn't leave Iran with
a vast nuclear infrastructure and such a short
break-out time.
A better deal that keeps the restrictions
on Iran's nuclear program in place until Iran's
aggression ends.
(APPLAUSE)
A better deal that won't give Iran an easy
path to the bomb.
A better deal that Israel and its neighbors
may not like, but with which we could live,
literally.
And no country...
(APPLAUSE)
... no country has a greater stake -- no country
has a greater stake than Israel in a good
deal that peacefully removes this threat.
Ladies and gentlemen, history has placed us
at a fateful crossroads.
We must now choose between two paths.
One path leads to a bad deal that will at
best curtail Iran's nuclear ambitions for
a while, but it will inexorably lead to a
nuclear-armed Iran whose unbridled aggression
will inevitably lead to war.NETANYAHU: The
second path, however difficult, could lead
to a much better deal, that would prevent
a nuclear-armed Iran, a nuclearized Middle
East and the horrific consequences of both
to all of humanity.
You don't have to read Robert Frost to know.
You have to live life to know that the difficult
path is usually the one less traveled, but
it will make all the difference for the future
of my country, the security of the Middle
East and the peace of the world, the peace,
we all desire.
(APPLAUSE)
My friend, standing up to Iran is not easy.
Standing up to dark and murderous regimes
never is.
With us today is Holocaust survivor and Nobel
Prize winner Elie Wiesel.(APPLAUSE)
NETANYAHU: Elie, your life and work inspires
to give meaning to the words, "never again."
(APPLAUSE)
And I wish I could promise you, Elie, that
the lessons of history have been learned.
I can only urge the leaders of the world not
to repeat the mistakes of the past.
(APPLAUSE)
Not to sacrifice the future for the present;
not to ignore aggression in the hopes of gaining
an illusory peace.
But I can guarantee you this, the days when
the Jewish people remained passive in the
face of genocidal enemies, those days are
over.(APPLAUSE)
NETANYAHU: We are no longer scattered among
the nations, powerless to defend ourselves.
We restored our sovereignty in our ancient
home.
And the soldiers who defend our home have
boundless courage.
For the first time in 100 generations, we,
the Jewish people, can defend ourselves.
(APPLAUSE)
This is why -- this is why, as a prime minister
of Israel, I can promise you one more thing:
Even if Israel has to stand alone, Israel
will stand.
(APPLAUSE)
But I know that Israel does not stand alone.
I know that America stands with Israel.
(APPLAUSE)
I know that you stand with Israel.
(APPLAUSE)
You stand with Israel, because you know that
the story of Israel is not only the story
of the Jewish people but of the human spirit
that refuses again and again to succumb to
history's horrors.
(APPLAUSE)
Facing me right up there in the gallery, overlooking
all of us in this (inaudible) chamber is the
image of Moses.
Moses led our people from slavery to the gates
of the Promised Land.
NETANYAHU: And before the people of Israel
entered the land of Israel, Moses gave us
a message that has steeled our resolve for
thousands of years.
I leave you with his message today, (SPEAKING
IN HEBREW), "Be strong and resolute, neither
fear nor dread them."
My friends, may Israel and America always
stand together, strong and resolute.
May we neither fear nor dread the challenges
ahead.
May we face the future with confidence, strength
and hope.
May God bless the state of Israel and may
God bless the United States of America.
(APPLAUSE)
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you all.
You're wonderful.
Thank you, America.
Thank you.
Thank you.
