Hi friends, Let’s begin.
When you’re starting anything, one of the
toughest things to swallow is that you’re
going to suck. Ira Glass talks about it in
a speech of his that went viral and my friend
Katherine talks about it a vlog of hers, both
of which I’ll link below.
So okay, intellectually, you know this. Beginners
are BEGINNERS. Not experts, right? So why
do you still feel the gnawing pain of inadequacy
deep with in your soul and by you I mean me,
I feel very inadequate.
When I first started making youtube videos
in 2011, I wanted to be an artist. Now, I’m
a shitty artist. But every day for 30 days
in a row I made a piece of art and I filmed
myself making it and I put it up on youtube
for the entire internet to see and in the
course of those 30 days I became a slightly
less shitty, but let’s be clear, still shitty
artist.
But you know what? I’m not embarrassed of
those videos. Not at all. I’m as proud of
them as anything else I’ve ever put up online.
I decided one day that I wanted to try something
and then I just did it. I learned a lot and grew a lot and started down
the bizarre and windy path to this going on
right here right now 
That’s more than most can say.
And so I don’t feel scared of trying new
things on here anymore.
But in the last year I started a videography
business, and when I look at the work of people
who are much more talented and accomplished
than I am I start to tell myself that I’m
terrible and that I’ll never, ever be as
good as they are.
I’ve gotten a massive case of imposter syndrome
– that feeling that you’re a fraud and
a hack and you’re just moments away from
being found out and then cast off into oblivion.
And you feel that too, then you’re in luck
because its one of the most universal feelings
in the human experience. We’re all imposters
here.
But you wanna know the only way to cure imposter
syndrome?
Suck. Suck frequently. Suck publically, even.
Suck loudly and visibly and dear god, Taylor,
CONTEXT.
So go forth and be terrible at something. And then be less
terrible. And then be okay, and then be really
fucking good. But first you have to
suck, and before you suck you have to begin.
If you liked this video please
consider subscribing so we can hang out and
be friends. The usual social
media bullsnazz is in the links below. Tell me
down in the comments something you are beginning
right now and/or something you feel like an
impostor at, and I will see you next week.
Goodbye!
