These are the 5 most valuable companies in
America.
Notice anything?
They’re all tech companies.
And their dominance is attracting attention
from watchdog groups that say their market
power is harming competition and the economy.
Is it time to breakup big tech?
To answer you have to understand how tech
has exploded.
For our purposes let’s imagine the top 5
tech giants as pacman, or pac-companies.
Except in this game, there’s no ghosts around
to avoid- no blinky, no clyde, Blinky and
clyde being U.S. regulators.
For the past decade, the U.S. Has been hands-off
with big tech, letting them become even bigger
by swallowing their smaller rivals or entering
new markets.
Bloomberg data show that in the last 10 years
the big 5 have made close to 500 acquisitions
worth about $140 billion.
Because consumers like their products, Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google
have developed huge market shares.
For example, amazon receives 93% of all e-book
sales.
Google pulls in 78% of internet search ad
spending in the U.S…
Similarly Apple and Facebook dominate in high-end
smartphones and social media traffic.
But being a monopoly isn’t illegal in the
U.S....Or most other countries.
Regulators stopped equating big with bad a
long time ago.
Monopoly cases brought by the U.S. have dwindled.
In fact, the last high-profile case was in
1998, when the justice department successfully
challenged Microsoft’s dominance of computer
operating systems.
And that 20 year dry spell in monopoly cases
has led some watch dogs to say that enforcement
in the U.S. has become too timid.
They say big tech is hurting innovation, jobs
and wages…
And some even blame the behemoths for a decline
in successful startups…
In Europe, America’s big tech companies
have faced more resistance with governments
more aggressively pursuing them.
For example, the E.U. has fined Google for
abusing its market dominance and Germany is
investigating Facebook for its privacy practices.
Of course big tech doesn’t think they need
to be broken up.
They argue their dominance isn’t necessarily
durable because new competitors can easily
jump in.
As Google likes to point out, competition
is just “one click away.”
