- Hi. Thank you for your speech, it's good and refreshing. I'm a Christian. So, this is something that I'm actually very passionate about and I talk to a lot of friends about. And the big pushback that I get, when I say things, like when I talk about Christianity or Islam or Sharia Law, things like that. Bill Warner, I reference a lot of his stuff. I get a lot of pushback and they kind of make the religions the same. - Right. - And they don't necessarily understand that they have completely different teachings. It's not just like they carry the same universal morality. So, what advice would you give to break that barrier? I've done the, actually going through the teachings and then I just got called a bigot and an Islamaphobe, even though I'm quoting the Koran or things like that. So, what kind of advice would you have to kind of break down that barrier and try and reach some middle ground? - You were hate reading. You were hate reading scripture at them. Oh, that's. How dare you, that's terrible. There is this bizarre place where. Jerry Seinfeld said he's not going to play college campuses anymore, because the kids don't want to laugh. They just want to call things racist and sexist. And it's the same. They don't want to learn about Islam or Christianity or any other religion, for that matter. They just want to call you a bigot, because their religion is politics. It's a real perversion of what we've been talking about all night. There is religion and downstream there is culture and downstream there is politics. But this awful materialism, this awful relativism, this awful post-modernism, use whatever -ism you want here. Instead of looking up and the culture worshiping what is of the cult, it looks down and it worships the politics. Feminists did this in the 1960's and said, "The political is personal, the personal is political". This worship of that, because everybody has got to serve somebody. So, I would always begin from a position of humility. The least informed are usually the loudest and it's an important realization when you realize you don't know very much, compared to other people. I would do it that way. I would ask them. Sometimes I get asked about abortion and they say, "But it's not a life and it's not a this and it's not a that". I say, "How sure are you? How sure? Because I don't know. Maybe it's not a morally dignified life. Maybe there is only a 5% chance. Are you willing to risk that? That's a million people a year that you are killing. Are you willing to take a 5% chance?". I would approach it in that way and just ask questions. They'll stop sputtering at some point or they'll walk away.
