- Do you think Democrats on the national level, some of which you have said were committed to more open borders, are willing to find a middle ground in a rational approach? - Jessica's approach certainly sounds rational, as do the Democrats when they talk about it, but when it actually comes to enforcing immigration law they fail. They refuse to do it because we know that they rely on these votes right now in the United States. Donald Trump has identified a simple issue, which is that illegal immigration is illegal. We know that this is a winner with the American people, we know that the majority of Americans, including the majority of Democrats, do not think that giving amnesty to illegal aliens should be a priority for Congress. And yet, Democrats rely on these votes as an electoral strategy. We know the Center for American Progress admitted this, we know that between three, excuse me, and 8.75% of illegal aliens and Hispanic immigrants identify with Democrats over Republicans so you're gonna see Democrats continue to push this strategy. They push for wholesale importation of foreigners, they push for enfranchising felons, they push for lowering the voting age. The Democrat base has become felons, foreigners, and children that's a winner for Democrats if they can get it through but the American people, I think, can see through it. - Jess is a political... - Michael, it's Sunday morning, there's so many offensive things to be saying so early. I don't understand how illegal... - But what's offensive about that? - How illegals, what? - Is it offensive or is it just politically incorrect? - Oh, calling the Democratic base felons? It's so wrong. - Well, I think he's referring to... Jessica, what he's referring to is criminal justice reform. He's putting it differently. - Which is a good thing. That Republicans and Democrats... - Well, not all Republicans support that. - Oh, well, a lot of them do actually, and you have actually been leading the way there if you look at what Tim Scott and Newt Gingrich are doing. But when you say that the Center for American Progress has admitted that our strategy is to have illegal aliens vote, what are you talking about? There's no massive voter fraud scheme in here. - I'm talking about the leaked memorandum that said... - That said what? - I'm talking about a leaked memorandum that said that it is key to the electoral strategy of Democrats to provide amnesty, particularly for young illegal aliens... - It was an admission. - So they can vote? - And because we know that they identify with Democrats. - Are you saying that illegal aliens are voting in this country? - No, but they will vote, and if they do vote... - Amnesty and citizenship are different. - If they are given pass to vote they'll vote for Democrats. - Amnesty and citizenship are different... - Amnesty and citizenship are very different, first of all, and majority... - Most Democrats, Jessica, would seek citizenship as an eventual result of amnesty if they could, correct? - I'm sure, down the line, but when you look at the programs that are in place, when you're talking about amnesty for asylum seekers that are coming here from Central and South America, I think you guys are completely off base and you're just trying to scare people about this... - But Jessica, this is an honest question. - Yeah. - This is an honest question. If you're an asylum seeker and you're from a country where you don't want to live and you want to come to America - Mhm. - Shouldn't we ask you to go through the proper channels, and do it, you know, submit that way and not scale a fence, or... - Yeah. - Or do so in nefarious ways? - I think so. It's an incredibly complicated issue when you consider the fact you should be applying for amnesty in your home country I've heard 75%, or upwards of 75% are denied that, so then because they can't live at home anymore... - Jessica. - They then carry on and they end up scaling that wall. I don't think that this is the right way, but I also don't think that there's necessarily a good solution to this since we are a country that wants to help others who have bad circumstances where they're coming from. - Michael? - Jessica, this isn't a complicated issue. Illegal immigration is illegal. We have, right now, record high percentages of the foreign born population to the U.S. population as a whole, it hasn't been this high since 1890. Every single day we arrest 1,000 people, illegal aliens, crossing into our border and then we release them into the general population. We know that 60 to 80% of women and girls who cross the borders illegally, are raped and sexually assaulted. If the suggestion here is that all of these illegal aliens are asylum seekers, that's the new euphemism that we're using for people flouting our immigration laws and crossing illegally. - No it's not, but... - What percentage would you advocate?
