- Uh, so I'm Robert, I'm one of the Coastal Liberals as you'd say. I've been watching you for years now, and I read your book on the arguments to fight against people like me and I feel bad, cause like for the most part, the people have been arguing against you aren't nearly as eloquent as they should be. But I would just like to ask, so one of your points you very strongly make is that it's unfair for people like me to label you as like a racist or a bigot just as like a smear tactic, but have you ever acknowledged that like maybe its not a smear tactic, but it's based on things you've said. So like, for example, on the Israel-Palestine conflict, you know you called the Arabs, yeah, you already know what I'm gonna say. (audience laughs) I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I don't mean to presume... Yeah, so, but you say... - I've written several full columns about it. I've talked about how people don't read the follow-up tweets. I wrote a column. - I've read some of the tweets, and the tweets were just as bad, I mean you say a lot of things that are like racist, right, but then if I call you a racist you defend it by saying like, I didn't read enough, right? So what I was going to say before. - Okay, fine. So give me my racist tweets in context. - Okay, well. - You came prepared, so great, go, go, do it. - So you said that Arabs like to bomb crap and live in open sewage. It's not a difficult day. Oh, before that you said Israeli's like to build. - Okay now the follow up, cause you said the follow ups didn't make it any better. - There is separate things that you said that were also pretty bad. - No, no I want the follow ups to that one, though. Would you like me to get them? I'll get them for you. - If you have them, sure. - What was that? - Do you mind if I continue while you do that? - Well, I'd like to take them one by one, so if you. - Sure. - Why don't we do this, why don't we delay that one until the end while I look this up from the podium in front of 600 people. (audience applauding) - Okay, so on that particular issue, you also said that the Arab-Palestine populist is by and large constitutes the most evil population on the face of the planet. Before you said that you never brought up religion when it comes to abortion, but I don't think that you've avoided religion when it comes to the Israeli conflict and I don't know that you can be completely unbiased on the issue, given that you know, you're. - Well, I can be unbiased on the subject that Palestinians have elected three terrorist governments to form a unity government with the stated goal of the destruction of the state of Israel and the murder of all Jews in the area. So that I can be relatively unbiased on. As far as the idea that the Palestinian population (audience applauding) As far as the idea that the Palestinians population is more evil than other populations, they certainly hold more evil views than other populations by poll statistics, by how many Palestinians approve of terror attacks, by how many Palestinians voted for an actual terror group, Hamas, and another actual terror group, Palestinian Authority, and another actual terrorist group, the Islamic Jihad. Okay, so I don't think that all views are equal and I don't think that people who hold evil views are necessarily good. I mean I'm sorry if the polls don't support the idea that everyone is equally wonderful, but everyone is not equally wonderful. Okay so I'm looking up the statements now, so if you'd like to give me a second. - Yeah, you deny secular Zionism and you. - Quote, okay so here, I've got them - Okay, go ahead with that. - Let's finish that one and then we can move. There are many, many Christian and Muslim Arabs who are wonderful people, just not the ones who oppose Israeli-Israel Arab conflict. That would be the response, within the same twitter thread. Okay, in the post re: Israelis vs Arabs, I wrote about Arabs who take part in the Israelis-Arab conflict as anyone who can read knows, #dumbasses. (audience laughing) Quote, "I think it has much more to do with the fact that Palestinian leadership supported by the Palestinian population uses millions for terror. I should have been more specific. Arabs who actively seek Israel's destruction". Those would be the follow-up tweets. Does that sounds like a genocidal maniac to you, or does it sound like I'm specifically labeling a group of people who have called for Israel's destruction? - I'd like to point out that you're not a racist, but they're dumbasses and you're allowed to insult them. - Yes, because someone calls me a racist without evidence they are definitionally a dumbass. - What is Genocide, wait, (audience applauds) I'll try to finish, I'll try to finish it up. It's hard when everyone keeps clapping to what he says. Uh, what is genocide, like the ah, after, you said you want to be like Churchill, right, and after the allies when they moved the German-speaking Polish out of Poland, - So now you're talking about a comment I wrote when I was 19 years old that I, that I actually morally abhorred and denounced myself, I think 6 years ago? And have repeatedly said was a bad column that I wrote when I was 19 years old? - Okay, so next. - I wish I had more time, like, do you wanna, do you wanna get a drink sometime, like a non-alcoholic beverage? - What was that, say one more time? - Do you wanna get a non-alcoholic drink sometime? cause I got a lot here. I really do. (cross-talk drowns out speaker) Let me just say this, for everything that you are going to say. I've addressed literally every one of those points. I have a column that I put out, probably, only a few months ago, and the literal title of it is "So here's a giant list of all the dumb stuff I've ever done". Don't worry I'll keep updating it. - I didn't get that one in my research, so I do apologize if I've misrepresented, like, my research wasn't, it will be so thorough, cause it was pretty much a last minute decision to start, like really going and trying to ask you a question. - And again, that's totally fine, and I appreciate you coming, and I appreciate you asking me the questions, but if the notion is that I'm a racist before you actually read all my responses today - Not, not I mean, racist is just one part, I also like the transgender, like you don't believe in transgenders, and like (cross-talk drowns out speaker) - Well, I don't know what that means, don't believe in transgenders, I mean. Transgender people exist. (audience laughing) - Yeah, you've said gender and sex are the same thing. You think they're synonymous. - I said gender and sex are linked, I said femininity and masculinity are linked to male and female - Just before you said it there. - Right, there are two genders. I don't believe there are 1000 genders and if I think that you're defining gender as just a random series of societal constructs, then there aren't two genders, there are infinite numbers of genders because everybody is a mix of feminine and masculine so why restrict it to 70 genders, make it 6 billion genders since we all have our unique mix of what male and female constitute. And yes, I don think that there can be such a thing as a male a in female's body. I don't think that there's a female in a male's body and I find the logic to support that and the science to support that utterly lacking. - Yeah, so, again... - I'd be happy to get a non-alcoholic beverage with you and discuss it more fully. (audience laughing) - Thank you for coming.
