- Andrew, so good to see you. Why, why haven't, why not a documentary about, you know, poor dumb Homer Simpson. Or nerdy Christian Ned Flanders. Why is it just Apu? - It's an excellent question, I mean, the show has been making fun of every single human being on Earth for over 10 years. I have no idea why you single out this one character. I mean, this is kind of what you worry about when you have nothing to worry about. This is what you worry about when you're in a rich, safe, happy country where you will probably gonna live to be like 84. You know your generation is gonna like build little cities on Mars and like, nothing's wrong. You really don't have a problem, you have a job, you're making money, this guy, the guy who started this complain is a comedian who's doing pretty well. This is what you worry, you worry about a cartoon, you know. And it's just embarrassing, and it's also, I mean the only thing fun for the rest of us is it's the left eating itself. It's basically left wingers, you know, people who are making fun of the culture are now no good because they are making fun of a culture, including its stereotypes. It's kind of like, I don't understand where the lefties' sense of humor is gonna come from. Or maybe they think they're not gonna need jokes. One of the complains that this guy made is that the voice of Apu is done by a white man. The white man happens, who happens to be Hank Azaria, who is one of the greatest voice man in show business ever. I mean a guy who can do almost any accent, any voice. You can't recognize him from one role to another. He's a genius at this, and like they're gonna attacked him because his skin color is white. It is just, it is utterly amazing, it's kind of (laughs) you know like everything in life at this point. It's kind of tragic and hilarious at the same time. Tragic because it's sad to see one half of the country just give over to racism like this. And hilarious because these are supposed to be the people who are the anti-racist, these are the guys that have been slinging at this racist slur and conservative slur for all those years and now they've just degraded themselves to the point where they're pointing at each other "You're white but you wrote about a black person" or "You're a woman but you wrote about a man" you know, "Men are not allowed to write about women", "Women are not", you know it's utterly unbelievable. And by the way Dana, out here in Hollywood now, agents get phone calls from producers saying "I need a latino female to write this part". You know, they have actually outlaw the imagination, they've outlaw the idea that a guy like William Shakespeare could ever create a black character like Othello and make it matter. - Wow, I didn't even know that. That's incredibly troubling, they are banning imagination. The other thing I thought about when I was looking at this is I think Ned Flanders besides his dorkiness is probably one of the more well adjusted characters. But Apu is a success story and it felt like they were looking down in the fact that here is this immigrant who comes to the United States, raises a family, he's running a successful business that everybody relies upon in the town. And apparently that's shameful. - You know, it's funny that you mention that because I think you're absolutely right. And, Ned Flanders is a great example, he's kind of dorky, not kind of dorky, he is the definition of dorky, he is a living dork, and he's silly and he is like a lot a religious people I know. He's hyper friendly and hyper peaceful and on, but everything he says always turns out to be true. And God does show up on the Simpsons from time to time and reck justice and give mercy. And actually Ned Flanders always turns out to be right. And the same thing is true of Apu. You can make all the fun of him you want for his accent or whatever but he's a successful American story of a guy who's built a business. And I think that is that's the funny thing about The Simpsons in general is that it has the dopey father and the steady mom and all this, but it really is a kind of pin to the American family. And it, it really does this so well, where it makes fun of all us on a one hand but also kind of has a tenderness at its heart which is I think why it's been on the air so long. It's not just running people down, it actually shows that things work the way they're supposed to. And I think that's kind of nice about The Simpsons. - I feel that comedy is finding fewer places of refuge. They don't, comedy doesn't really have a lot of places to go anymore Andrew, and it's like, that's the last frontier for free speech and it just seems like it's getting smaller. - Well, you know, I mean, if you real problems you need a sense of humor. You know, if you're under the gun, if you're enslaved, if you're oppressed, if you're beaten, you need a sense of humor. But if you're living in this country right now where nothing bad as ever happening to anybody basically, certainly not on a kind of a governmental level, the government isn't oppressing people. You're not being oppressed if you're black, you're not being oppressed if you're gay. These people don't really have problems (laughs). So they don't, they have to be super serious to pretend they're important. You know, it gives them a sense of importance, it give them a sense that they have something, some injustice to fight, some major battle to wage. - Fake it until you make it. You know, that's what they say. - Yeah, that's right. I Think it will be so much better if they would be concentrating on doing positive things. Like building new businesses, building rocket ships, building ways that we can explore new planets, all kind of things that this generation has to do. And we've just got a whole generation of whiners, complaining about cartoons (laughs). - Yeah, (stutters), I thought they would, if they're gonna pick on something that's offensive, my gosh South Park. And South Park doesn't have any of the tenderness. I love that you pick up on that. The tenderness of The Simpsons, because it does, I mean, there are times when it's you know, both part, ridiculous and also very tender but then you have South Park that just goes out and just pommels the crap out at every single person, no one is safe. Everyone gets ruthlessly mocked and made fun of, and they regularly kill off their main character so, I mean it's funny they didn't pick on South Park. Probably because they'll make an episode out of it. - That's exactly right. In South Park, South Park, those guys are republicans and they are libertarians and they don't care about this stuff. So if you attack them they will come back and just make fun of you for doing it. They'll made fun out of their political correctness. They always go after, that's why they go after their own, because we won't listen to them. If they attack you Dana you're not gonna respond, you're not gonna be cowed. But if they attack somebody who actually kind of agrees with them, they might agree and they might get some headwound.
