- Big Ben, what's up with you? - How's it going, dude? - Hey, I'm doing alright. (applause) Okay, so my question is, well first I'm going to kind of - I need to give you this hammer. You're enormous, dude. You can wield this much better than I can. I look like one of the dwarves from Snow White and the Seven Dwarves, like I'm going mining or something. - Appreciate that. So, first, I want to paraphrase another speaker, who kind of operates along your same tone, in America, Jordan Peterson, Dr. Jordan Peterson. (audience applause) So, one of the things that he often talks about is at the basis, or the premise of the ongoing debate between conservatism versus liberalism is that at the basis of each, conservatism is like the protection of the hierarchy whereas on the liberal side, it is more so protection and promotion of egalitarianism. And so, my question to you is: one thing he makes clear is that both sides are necessary for or are ideal in a country that moves forward at a fast pace as the United States has done. And so my question to you is, it seems as though you have a more hostile, you have such a hostility towards liberals and leftists. Whereas I don't often hear you at all, say there is anything you can learn from their side. In his book, "Twelve Rules for Life", one of the chapters is assume that the person in which you are speaking with has something to offer you, as far as intellectually that you may learn from them. So my question to you is, I guess what is your position, do you feel as though a liberal, or obviously a liberal, but liberals in general or leftists in general have anything to bring anything to the table, from an ideology standpoint or intellectually? - I mean passion for change is obviously, it can be a good thing when directed in the proper channels. As you say, the left focus on egalitarianism is good so long as it is focused on the equal application of rights not on the false attempts to override biology and natural hierarchy. So, I think Jordan would agree with me on the idea that if you run up, if you butt up against a natural hierarchy or if you butt up against natural differences because I don't think ever difference is a hierarchy. If you butt up against natural differences, if you butt up against reality, trying to override reality with artificial equality is going to be a giant failure and can, as Jordan would say, murder millions in the process. Right, it's what Jordan thinks Communism was. It was basically, there's a difference between human beings. Failure to respect those differences, in the name of equality is what leads to gulags. So, while Jordan is, Jordan I think he's a little less robust in the language he uses with regard to the left, he's just as anti-left with regard to the focus on hard-core egalitarianism. Where the left, I do think and I do make a distinction between as I have said between liberals and leftists. The left is a far more censorious force. They want to censor a lot more, they're a lot more tramanical. They want to control a lot more from the top. People who are liberals, who are arguing over the proper scope of government, in particular areas there I think, there is plenty to learn and I think you can have fulsome exchanges about the nature of what sort of social welfare state can be supported or is appropriate and you can have a data exchange on that sort of thing. Where you can't really have an exchange, is when you're running up against is when people are falsifying the facts as they are when they say that men and women are exactly the same, for example. So, I appreciate the critique, and I'll try to take that to heart. And I think that, I will acknowledge also that I think that folks had a lot more to learn from the left in the 1960s than they do now. Because the country has moved in a lot of very good ways since the 1960s and in some bad ways since the 1960s. - Fair enough, thank you. - Thanks a lot. (applause) - Can I ask another question? - Yeah, one more. Go for it. - Will you have another one? - Mm-hmm. - Okay, and this one, this has to do with the whole national anthem and players kneeling during the games in the NFL. So, my question is this: I feel that regardless of whether you agree with the act or not, someone taking a knee during the national anthem, at the beginning of a football game. I believe that if you, if you don't say, "okay, I disagree with the act. I don't think it's the right place, I don't think it's the right whatever the case may be, however I agree with it in so much as I would like to protect that individual's freedom of speech". And my question is: I don't hear, you certainly or a lot of anyone on the conservative side or right side as you would call it, as someone may call it. Defending, saying, "look I don't agree with it but I agree with that person's freedom of speech in that moment of utilizing that act." - So, it depends on the forum. So, this is a public university; I have a right to speak here, right? There is a difference between that and, for example, DePaul University. So, DePaul University is a private university. Last year, I think it was last year, DePaul invited me to speak or at least some of the students did. The administration said I couldn't and when I showed up on campus, they threatened to arrest me. I didn't sue the university because they have a right to do that. I think they're wrong, I think they're foolish, but they have a right to do that. And so, Colin Kapernick does not have the right to kneel on the sidelines of a private NFL event. If he wants to kneel in a park, he's more than welcome to do so. - According to who, he doesn't have the right? - Well, he doesn't have the legal right. He can't sue the NFL to force them. - Oh, so he can't sue the NFL. Certainly, I agree. - So, that's the distinction that I'm making. When it comes to, if Colin Kapernick were to come here and, like right here, you know, and after the event that we haven't organized, he wants to kneel on the stage all day long, that's totally fine. It's a public university, he can do what he wants. So time, place, and manner restrictions are a thing and so is private versus public. So, I'll defend Colin Kapernick's right to say whatever the hell he wants in any public area so long as he's not violating the rights of private property owners to control their property because they do have rights. He couldn't come into my living room and just kneel on the floor. - Do you think the conversation is based around the fact that the NFL is a private organization or is it based around the fact that they feel that action disrespects our military in that moment because the national anthem is so associated with - Well, I think the NFL handled this in the worst way possible; which is that they allow certain messages and not other messages. - Then we're on the same page. - Right. So like, a few years ago, there were a bunch of guys in Missouri that did the "Hands Up, Don't Shoot" symbol coming at the St. Louis Rams. They came out of the tunnel doing the "Hands Up, Don't Shoot". They weren't fined, nothing happened. If the NFL wants to set a standard that you're not allowed to make political statements during the games or in the warm ups or something, totally cool. But if they're going to be inconsistent in the application of those standards, then I've got a bit of a problem with them. And I think that Roger Goodell has done a terrible job with that. You know how you know this? Because David Stern actually banned people from sitting for the national anthem in 1996 with Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf and nothing happened. He set the standard, that was the end of it. If you want to protest, don't protest here. Go protest somewhere else and nobody cared. That's really not even the larger, look the larger issue about Kapernick is, you know whether it is appropriate generally for people to kneel for the national anthem or whether we should be insulted by that. You know, my feeling is that it's generally not appropriate but having the right to do something does not make it the appropriate or right thing to do. I don't think that kneeling for the national anthem is either smart politics or the right things to do because there are certain things that still have to unify us; like the idea that the country is based on good foundations and if he wanted to kneel for the national anthem outside a police station I think that would be a lot more useful for his supposed cause than, you know taking millions and millions of dollars in contracts from Nike to pretend to be a social justice warrior. I'm very skeptical of Colin Kapernick. I think there are a lot of people who actually care about these issues and have studied the issues and don't wear socks with pictures of cops as pigs on them. - Yeah, I just want to say thank you and I agree that if that was going to happen, Colin Kapernick may not have been the best proponent, the best individual to make that stand in that situation. Thank you so much. - I appreciate it. Thank you so much for coming.
