Alright guys, Violet here back at it again! -CJ the DJ
Let's get...(inaudible)  -21 Savage...(inaudible)
So, we had a huge argument like who's the better best friends
Faze: wich is obviously us! Violet and Chantel: No no / Are you sure about that?
we live together, do you guys? *screaming*
We did for a while! *screaming*
so basically, you see what had happened was... my anus was leaking fluid
 
Obviously, well we all got in a fight. Like, they think they're the best friends. Rice: We are.. Alissa: We think we're the better best friends...
So,  now we're filming a video to show you guys,  look.. what do you think?  Who's really who's the better best friends?..
Banks: So we've prepared 10 questions... Rice: 10  Banks:Me and Alissa are gonna sit here
Banks: We're gonna be asked 5 about our significant other.. Rice: Yep, Yep Banks: that true boo-thing..
Banks: And then we're going to dip out and then them 2, are gonna sit and then ask another 5 questions...
Banks: That's the thumbnail!!!... *screaming*
Banks: So, question is we're gonna see who knows better.. who really is the better friends. Let's get to it.. Yah!
Banks: hi baby. Alissa: hi baby. Banks: yeah so we got our homie Nick asking us the questions
Banks: I'm going to be answering for what I think Rice's answer would be and she's going to be answering it for Chanel Chantell. Alissa: Yeah her name's Chantell. See..
...I get one point already because I knew that. Banks: Hey, bang...
Nick: So, what is your best friend's favorite clothing brand Banks: easy.  Alissa: I got this.
Banks: Supreme  Nick: Yeah, I knew that one. I'm not even his best friend. Banks: Easy peasy on... *interrupted*
Alissa: Can I go?  Banks: Yeah.  Alissa: YSL.
Alissa: Bang, bang
Banks: Are you confident about that?Alissa: Yeah. Banks: I'm very confident.  He's going to say some lame shit like LV or something.. Nick: no, no, no, no, no..you know you know Rice.
Nick: What is your best friend's favorite place to eat? Banks: Dead-Ass don't know this.
Alissa: I know this one, SugarFish! Ding! 1 point for me. Banks: Give me a second. I'm Gonna just go with Tender Greens...
...It's probably not the right answer, but...
Alissa: I know Rice and he doesn't, he eats Tender Greens like once a month.  Nick: Hey, you miss 100% of the shots you don't take...
...so there perfect.. Banks: Bang
Nick: Next question. What is your best friend's favorite make of a car? Banks: Actually again, don't know this.
Alissa: I know this, Mercedes ! Banks: (under his breath... OMG, Bro)
Alissa (*sing for her victory*) da-da-da-da-dah!
Banks: I'm gonna,  I'm going say Ferrari. I think he's going say some (some) crazy shit.
Nick: What kind of Rari? Banks: 4- Nick: 58
Banks: I'm not confident in these answers, dude. Alissa:that sucks... (sad music plays)
Banks: And I picked the questions, dude. Alissa: You should have a best friend
Next question. What is your best friend celebrity crush?
Banks: oh my god,  don't know this either dude.. * sad music continues*
...I'm going to say Ricegum's celebrity crush is Ricegum . Nick: That's awesome. Banks: I'm gonna say he's going to say himself.
...That's just a Ricegum thing to do...
..That's how well I know my best friend.
Alissa: I know who your golden girls celebrity crush is. ME!
Banks: So Alissa Violet is your answer? Alissa:Yeah, Nick: okay Banks: All right. Nick: What is your best friend's middle initial?
Banks:Oh my God, dude. I don't even..
.. I don't know.  Does he even have a middle na..what if he what he doesn't. Can my answer be, none..
..I swear I've seen... Q! Q!  Alissa: What? Banks: Q! Yeaaah *claps* Is it?
Do you know it, if it is? ~Nick: I have no idea ~Banks: I think it is. ~Nick: I hope you're right though. ~Alissa:Are you cheating? ~Nick: No, I'm rooting for him. ~Banks: No, what are you talking about, I live with the kid.
Alissa:Did you tell him? Ok. I'm Gonna Say...
Banks:.Ahh, like that. (*pink panther music*)I think that's what it is.
Nick: I saw that. The camera saw that
Banks:STOP! *Alissa laughs*
~Banks: She's actually trying to cheat! ~Alissa: No I'm not!  ~Banks:Put it in there. T-Wap put that in there. ~Alissa: Ok,  I'm just going to guess..I really don't, I feel really bad that I don't know but I'm going to, it's either..M.
Banks: M, is your final answer? ~Alissa: B..  ~Banks: Alright that's it! For this round of questions.
Let's get them in here and let's see how we do. I think I got you. ~Alissa: No. No. ~Banks: I think I got you beat. Let's go, okay..
Alissa:That's my best friend, that's my best friend, right here is my best friend.
Nick: Alright, first question. What is your best friend's favorite animal? Rice: What? We don't even discuss that type of stuff. (chantell-ahhhhh)
Well, I think I think uh you go take your favorite animal. Thank
you very much Mom -
I think he's dog
Yeah, I'm going to test everything next leg. I think we do you think like giraffe like an elephant something?
I think we're oh, what does bates call anyone
My favorite animal is a squid blue. Maybe that might be a thing so what this is good?
Thank goodness. They've been big dog dog. You can fish like Casa, La Cucina. So does that?
Okay, our dancers second question second question. What is your best friend's favorite artists pretty I?
would just say a little
Even I know you want one. Oh my gosh. I got you guys my new is a briefing set and save drake
I feel like I was drinking I do
Yeah, she's my fare artist next question. What is your best friend's basic fit?
The only versions are so hard for so that we don't have to talk about
Is it it like heightened shit or like Darknet, Nara? It's like retarding so random Share it probably ah
Why I'd like you to the worst question since a very all know that people inside the virus
Know what? What are you talking about? We've already discussed this me and make the way back to the Roger life
We go way back
Hospitals oh
I like a listen. I'm scared thing yes. She's fearless. Yeah, I was a spirit
We've added cheese one may be scared like being not establish
did you guys do you got a famine is release fear alright next question
What is your best friend's least favorite color um another favorite color is violent, so think like the opposite of violence
So probably agree. I will just say
Right last question last question. What is the best friend favorite season I?
Was just like dude everyone loves silver yeah, but that's not where are you?
Alright, that's it. That's it. We win, bro. I do oh. Yeah, go do one right?
There s the ball is hard question it was hard question mark Said I really never talked about yeah
Alright, what is your favorite clothing brand both of these me to it like that ah what?
Do g goochie Goochie Goochie um?
get
also, playing with a friend blue my taking
your time next time I was afraid
my favorite grana step
Yeah, what are the odds you guys suck as friends you guys?
Okay, next question. What did you favorite place to eat? Oh?
Yeah, so our next question. What did you guys?
I was crazy put this nice baby chill out. Oh
Wait, so I guess laughs yeah y'all bro. I just gonna trust me. Oh, I wear everything. I'm sorry
All right next question. What did you guys let me cut?
myself
No
No
No, shut up. You're gonna cheat. There's not two up. Yeah
I
Don't know it is I'm doing you a signed up as well
I was actually about this a mess to me
Wow, well last question please sir. What's your middle initial play mine you?
To go - yes - alright
Any questions up for thank you, Elizabeth mmM like you're going down
Caption what did you guys give an animal squid? Yeah? That's a
3/3 just sharing what is your favorite artist riddance?
Actually, no one really thinks is illegal
Right up real wrong right now
that really what oh
ah oh
right sorry
Good questions. What what is your biggest fear hi?
Being broke Elisa. Yeah, what do you say? Oh you really just said that - yeah
Why fighting the Huntress winning now Hydrogen - no -?
and all the players
Are saying what do I know hello? What if I was getting back?
So is that a no no no not luxury? No, it's not all joy my
God when I said it may be hard. Oh, she does it all really throws my biggest fear like ever is like quality so say
What is it like be when I'm pregnant?
nothing is
Your biggest fear like it is one more question. What is just baby season
oh
Yeah, once I saw my yeah
Are you serious?
I've never technically everyone likes on their phone like ever links drinkin and all my wrong what we do is lose
I run away, my all my
Redemption ground their last question. I'm not going. What is your
Interest which is really about my color
I
Know what office it was for verifying violation top to bottom ah hi
My name is what touched up with a few guidelines that were worn in degree
I've never wanted to remember needed. I know she's
Legit look into my eyes and green or you never liked every mess
so bring
the frame where the supreme front
Okay, thanks for watching
Crew to subscribe so everyone I get alright
Everything is down in the description
That's all fit. We already know yeah, okay. We're with them
I to summer sun greater now you're not going to service Gonna do it which we are everyone subscribe to dick
if you liked this video make sure to give it a big thumb up I
Knew you would do that my true subscribe to my channel because I'm going to be making more videos every day
This is rice song on the figures right here, so click it. This is Chantal Jeffries Rig is right
Oh my God click it and this is my lincoln does it say banks look it when I was all wrong
And you haha. Here's my reporting - so frank this right you?
