*cheering*
Yeah Yeah Yeah
the hardest part ... ah...
at such an appearance is mostly the beginning
And then I said to myself "okay..."
"Just do it on the fly and don't prepare anything"
the result was "yeah yeah yeah"
jep...
Actually I hate people who say "yeah yeah yeah"
right?
People who say "yeah, yeah, yeah"
also don't hesitate to say "Na sichi"
those people are so awkward, man.
These are the same people,
that used to start their answer in the english lessons with "well..."
These are the same people, because of which the class outing had to end early ...
... because they suddenly had nose bleeding.
"We gotta go home, Daniel is bleeding!"
"why though?"
Nothing happened, man
just kidding
I'm from Berlin-Neukölln
When the nose of some Daniel was bleeding at our place, ...
it had a reason
For those of you who don't know Neukölln
...ahm compared to Neukölln, Chorweiler (district of Cologne) is Monaco
I had a schoolmate called "Engin"
and Engin was quite tall...
...and quite strong...
...and indeed willing to use violence...
Engin just always punched everybody
just...
just for no reason
And at our school in Neukölln there were guidance counselors and arbiters
and their job was to make sure that not more than 4 students died per lesson.
And one of them was Mr Gericke
you already hear it ...
...victim!
honestly, show me one cool Mr Gericke!
and if a Mr Gericke is here tonight ...
anyway...Mr Gericke wanted to call a halt to Engin
so he built up all of his "Mr-Gericke"-courage...
and trudged towards Engin, like this:
Engin?
When a person of authority has its finger like this it's already shit, right?
Engin?
Stop laying hands on weaker students!
Please!
And then Engin said something very clever, because he said:
"I would also lay hands on stronger students..
...but there are none!"
Then he punched the guidance counselor
That sounds harsh, but hey
This man was used to it
This was his daily routine
I'm not kidding: he lands in the stable side position by himself
and he is really stable, we kicked him from all sides.
This man was laying there...
... like a number one!
more specifically like a very retarded four towards the end.
