The United Nations recently held their climate
summit in New York City.
A few days ahead of the event, more than 300,000
people joined a peaceful march in Manhattan
to call attention to the issue of climate
change.
Secretary Of State John Kerry recently argued
that the problem of climate change should
be addressed with the same immediacy as Ebola
or ISIS.
So, putting politics aside, how serious is
this issue?
Well, there’s an incredible amount of statistical
evidence that illustrates the severity of
climate change.
But instead of getting mired down in talk
about ice caps and polar bear populations,
let’s just discuss what the UN Climate Summit
is really about: air pollution.
The UN is meeting in hopes of signing a deal
that could cut down on carbon emissions worldwide.
Just to be clear, we are talking about cars
and our dependence on oil, but we’re also
talking about things like coal power.
Climate change is a pressing issue now because
there are nations, chief among them China,
that are actively pumping carbon into the
environment on an enormous scale.
According to the Global Carbon Project, China
alone accounts for 28% of the world’s total
carbon emissions.
And they increased their emissions last year
by 4.2%, which increased global emissions
worldwide, by 2.3%.
In other words, year over year - the situation
is getting worse, not better.
The ultimate goal of this meeting is to establish
a plan to reduce these emissions.
And one way to do that - is switching away
from coal and fossil fuels, to cleaner forms
of energy; a switch that some economists and
ecologists now argue could also help developing
countries, like China, save money in the long
run.
They also argue that it would benefit not
just the environment, but also the health
of the people in those nations.
The argument against committing to cleaner
energy is that it requires an enormous initial
investment and could potentially slow down
economic progress.
The problem is that the very nations that
need economic progress most, are also the
nations that emit the most carbon.
It’s a catch-22, and a large part of why
an agreement still hasn’t been reached.
To find out more about what’s going on in
China, check out our video on the conflict
between China 
and 
the Tibetan Independence movement.
Or watch our other video on How Powerful China
really is.
Remember we upload new videos five days a
week, so please subscribe.
