Political leaders around the world have the
power to change the lives of millions of people
with the stroke of a pen.
This year, world leaders from Syria to South
Sudan have made decision that have resulted
in war, famine and political oppression that
will be recording in history for years.
And this got us thinking, which world leaders
should we keep an eye on in 2018?
First on our list is North Korean dictator
Kim Jong-Un.
In his early thirties, Kim is one of the youngest
leaders in the world and has made a name for
himself as one of the most volatile leaders
in the last few years.
Oh yeah, not to mention he also controls a
massive nuclear weapons arsenal and the fourth
largest army in the world.
When he gained power in 2011, many experts
thought Kim wouldn’t be able to hold onto
power because of his inexperience.
But years later, he’s proven himself as
a ruthless leader who’s willing to execute
high ranking officials and even family members
who have questioned his authority.
Under his leadership, North Korea has entered
into a new era in its nuclear weapons ambitions
-- with at least 89 confirmed missiles tests
since his rule began.
That’s more tests than his father, Kim Jong-Il,
and grandfather, Kim-il Sung, combined.
2017 was undoubtedly a huge year for the North
Korean leader, having tested over 20 missiles,
including its very first ICBM, or Intercontinental
Ballistic Missile, which it claims can reach
the mainland United States.
Earlier in that year, he was also accused
of ordering the murder of his defecting half-brother
with a chemical agent in an attack straight
out a spy novel.
Kim Jong-Un has undoubtedly proven himself
as an unpredictable and brutal leader in 2017,
and is definitely someone you should pay attention
to in 2018.
Next on our list is a man who hasn’t even
gained full power yet, but has surely made
power moves that have had severe domestic
and regional implications.
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi
Arabia escalated in power, becoming the next
heir to the Saudi Monarchy, in only June 2017.
His drastic promotion was an unexpected move
by the King who ousted the former heir to
the crown, Salman’s cousin, Mohammed bin
Nayef.
The 32-year-old Crown Prince is also the nation’s
Deputy Prime Minister and defence minister.
During his time as defence minister, the nation
has seen an uptick in military actions.
He is responsible for the largest military
conflict in all of Saudi Arabian history,
its brutal and often indiscriminate bombing
campaign and blockade of Yemen, its poor neighbor
to the south.
The Prince is also seen as central figure
in the series of shocking arrests of other
princes and prominent figures in the country
in November 2017.
The Crown Prince claims the arrests were in
a part of his supposed “anti-corruption”
campaign in the kingdom, but some see the
move as the latest example of him consolidating
power.
The young prince is also seen by some as a
force for modernization in the historically
conservative country.
He is seen as the mastermind behind the kingdom’s
ambitious Vision 2030 plan that hopes to diversify
its economy, shifting it away from so dependent
on oil-exportations.
The prince’s desire for modernizing his
economy, seems to be at the center of his
recent social reforms, like the reversal of
the ban on women driving, its plan to issue
tourist visas for the first time in 2018,
and even allowing cinemas to reopen for the
the first time since the 1970s.
If the 2017 is any indication of what we should
expect from Mohammad bin Salam, he is certainly
a leader you should keep an eye on in 2018.
And last, but certainly not least on our list
is Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Putin has always been a rather controversial
figure, but over the past few years he’s
escalated conflict in the region, cracked
down on political opposition, and has even
been accused of directing the hacking of the
2016 US presidential elections.
Most notable of his actions, has been the
2014 annexation of Crimea from Ukraine.
IT fueled a war between russian-backed separatist
and the Ukrainian government in the nation’s
east.
Tensions don’t seem to be subsiding anytime
soon either.
Fighting in eastern Ukraine has killed over
10,000 since it started in 2014 and has recently
seen an uptick in clashes throughout the region.
And while this might all sound like old news,
it’s important to remember the actions by
Putin as we look as his goals for 2018 -- becoming
president again.
Although he hesitated to announce his candidacy
down to the last minute, no one ever questioned
Putin’s intentions of whether he wanted
to stay in power for another 6 years.
With the election being held on the anniversary
of the annexation of Crimea, the lack of legitimate
opposition candidates, and his popularity
in Russia, it projected that Putin will almost
certainly win the Presidency again come March
-- a move that will keep him in power till
2024.
As you can tell from this video, one of the
most dangerous ways world leaders tend to
wield their influence is by entering into
conflict and wars.
But what were some of the most devastating,
significant, and underreported conflicts of
2017?
Find out in this video right here!
Thanks for checking out NowThis World!
And as always, don’t forget to like and
subscribe for more every week!
