In the aftermath of the Soviet Union, the
newly formed Russian Federation had a problem.
Since the late 1940s, the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization stood as a military alliance
among the most powerful countries on earth,
to oppose the USSR’s enormous reach.
But in the early 1990s, without control over
its former Soviet Empire, Russia seemed relatively
defenseless.
And so did it’s Eurasian neighbors.
This predicament sparked a NATO-like association
of post-Soviet states, called the Collective
Security Treaty Organization, and from reading
our comments lately, it seems like you want
to know more about this military group.
So, just how powerful is Russia’s largest
military alliance, and how does it fare against
NATO?
Well, the CSTO was formed in May of 1992,
barely six months after the collapse of the
Soviet Union.
This Russia led organization included Armenia,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan,
all formerly Soviet entities.
Within a few years, three more states joined,
Azerbaijan, Belarus, and Georgia.
Collectively these nine countries agreed to
work together militarily, and most importantly,
provide support and security.
The CSTO Charter clearly states that their
goals include “strengthening of peace, international
and regional security and stability, protection
of independence on a collective basis, territorial
integrity and sovereignty of the Member States”.
So, a formalized mutual defense treaty.
But while the CSTO was intended to serve as
a counterpoint to NATO, it has ultimately
fallen very short of its goal.
First of all, since its creation, the CSTO
has lost three member states, Azerbaijan,
Georgia, and Uzbekistan, all of whom have
distanced themselves from an increasingly
territorial Russia.
The remaining states, when pitted against
NATO seem mostly ineffective.
NATO accounts for more than half of the world’s
military spending, and contains all of the
most powerful militaries, besides Russia and
China.
And while NATO has spent much of the 20th
century actually working together to aid member
states, the CSTO has failed in its comparatively
short lifetime.
In 2010, Kyrgyzstan saw ethnic violence rock
its borders, and called on the CSTO for help.
The organization head refused, saying that
it was a domestic matter and not covered by
their joint-agreement.
Then, two years later, Tajikistan asked for
help in resolving an autonomous dispute, which
involved rebel and military forces attacking
each other.
Again, the CSTO refused.
Perhaps most damningly, while a major function
of the CSTO is ostensibly to support Russian
influence in the region, the country’s most
controversial military incursion has been
soundly rejected by most member states.
Following the invasion of Crimea, all members
except Armenia criticized the violation of
Ukraine’s territorial integrity.
Most of the union also refused to vote in
favor of Russian policy regarding Syria at
the United Nations.
In short, while the CSTO may be a mutual defense
collective on paper, in practice not only
is the group devoid of power, but it also
works against advancing Russian policy in
multiple areas.
So, the CSTO isn’t quite the NATO alternative
it was meant to be.
But how effective and powerful is NATO anyway?
You can find out by watching this video to
the right.
Thanks for tuning into NowThis World, don’t
forget to like and subscribe for more episodes
every week!
