In January 2016, an American college student
was detained in North Korea on charges of
“hostile acts” against the state.
The student was just leaving the country after
a five day guided tour approved and monitored
by the North Korean government.
But although the US has long discouraged travel
to North Korea, roughly six thousand Westerners
reportedly visit the country every year.
So we wanted to know, how can you get into
North Korea?
Well for Americans and many other nationalities,
traveling to North Korea is no easy task.
Before 2010, American tourists were altogether
banned from obtaining North Korean visas,
unless they visited during the country’s
famous “Mass Games”.
Today, most Americans can successfully enter
the country, but only after they obtain a
visa and book a pre-approved guided tour.
Nearly all flights into North Korea’s capital,
Pyongyang pass through China, which means
many travelers must get both a Chinese and
North Korean visa for the trip.
Additionally, US citizens are required to
enter by plane, rather than by train or boat.
This process is even trickier for journalists,
who need a special visa to enter North Korea.
In the rare case that a reporter is let into
the country, they are stripped of their equipment
and assigned a round-the-clock government
chaperone, called a minder.
Journalists must also surrender all electronic
privacy to the North Korean government, who
are known to monitor emails, phone calls and
internet searches.
So, it’s no surprise that journalists are
routinely denied entry to North Korea.
In fact, there seems to be no public record
of how many western journalists are currently
working in the country.
But the number is likely low.
Most of the content we see of North Korea
is actually from North Korean journalists
working for Western media outlets.
North Korean leaders recently allowed Western
news organizations to operate bureaus in the
country, albeit under very tight regulations.
On the other hand, traveling to North Korea
is much easier for citizens of communist or
former soviet states.
Moreover, roughly 80 to 90 thousand of the
total 100 thousand annual visitors come from
neighboring China.
The Chinese and residents of 22 other countries
including Cuba, Switzerland and Russia don’t
need a visa to enter North Korea, however
the length of their stay is usually limited.
Despite the tight restrictions and invasive
policies aimed at foreigners, North Korea
sees more Western tourists every year.
North Korean leader Kim Jong-un publicly endorsed
tourism in 2013, saying that he’d like to
see at least one million visitors a year by
2020.
Since then, the country has unveiled a five-star
ski resort and has been slowly turning an
industrial port into a tourist beach resort.
Still, the average North Korean vacation takes
months of planning and for US citizens, costs
roughly $2,000 dollars.
So the Hermit Kingdom is making strides in
terms of opening up their historically secure
borders.
However the US State Department has cautioned
against traveling to North Korea, due to a
higher risk of long-term detainment, for something
even as little as taking a photo.
With all the costs and bureaucratic hurdles
in place, not to mention the danger of being
imprisoned, traveling to North Korea could
be more trouble than it’s worth.
While it isn’t clear just how much money
tourism brings into North Korea, it certainly
isn’t their biggest moneymaker.
In fact, with so many sanctions and unfriendly
relations around the world, just how does
North Korea make its GDP?
Watch this video to find out.
Thanks for watching Test Tube News, don’t
forget to like and subscribe for new videos
every day.
