Following a terror attack on an Indian Air
Force base in January 2016, US President Barack
Obama urged neighboring Pakistan to “delegitimize,
disrupt, and dismantle” its terror networks.
Although in his interview with the Press Trust
of India Obama did not directly accuse Pakistan’s
government of sponsoring terrorism, the country
has long been accused of harboring and funding
terrorists. Pakistan did end up being the
hiding place for one of the most notorious
terrorists in history, Osama bin Laden. But
perhaps due to necessary relations between
the US and Pakistan, the country does not
appear on the US’s official “State Sponsors
of Terrorism” list. In fact, only three
countries are currently on that list. So,
which countries does the US accuse of sponsoring
terrorism?
Well, since 1979, eight countries have occupied
a spot on the State Sponsors of Terrorism
list. These are: Syria, Libya, Iraq, Cuba,
Iran, North Korea, Sudan and the former South
Yemen. Five of these countries have since
been removed, most recently Cuba in 2015.
That leaves three remaining members: Syria,
Iran, and Sudan. Being on the list means that
a number of serious sanctions are levied against
the country. These include various controls
and bans on military supplies, including weapons
sales. There are also severe financial restrictions.
Terror sponsoring countries cannot get loans
from the World Bank, nor can any US citizen
do business with them without a license from
the Treasury department.
The oldest member is Syria, which was one
of the first countries added in 1979, and
the only original country to remain on the
list. The designation was sparked by the oppressive
rule of Hafez al-Assad. Today, his son Bashar
al-Assad is believed to militarily support
Hezbollah in Lebanon, while terrorist network
grow within the currently war-torn Syria.
According to the US state department, this
has allowed foreign fighters to enter Iraq,
and possibly led to the formation of ISIS.
The next oldest member is Iran, which was
placed on the list in 1984. Similar to Syria,
Iran is believed to support US-designated
terrorist groups in Palestine, including Hezbollah
and Hamas. They are also thought to have funded
Iraqi Shia militias in support of the Assad
regime, and even sent Iranian Revolutionary
Guard members to Syria. Multiple senior al-Qaeda
members have been allegedly detained in Iran,
but their identities have not been released
and Iran has been unwilling to prosecute them.
In fact, the US believes that Iran has allowed
al-Qaeda operatives to move fighters and money
into South Asia and Syria.
Finally, war-torn and politically unstable
Sudan was added to the list in 1993. According
to the US State Department, affiliates of
Hamas have been able to travel and fundraise
in Sudan with no repercussion from the Sudanese
government. Additionally,al-Qaeda inspired
groups see high Sudanese membership. Moreover,
multiple men detained in a terrorist training
camp, and one involved in the murder of two
US Embassy members, were released by Sudanese
authorities.
However, many say that the US’s State Sponsors
of Terrorism list is outdated and incomplete.
Critics contend that rather than listing the
realistic sources of terrorism, these countries
are simply on the US’s bad side, and weak
enough that they are easy to shut out. Some
unlisted countries like Pakistan and Saudi
Arabia are more widely considered to have
links between terrorism and government officials,
but as they are US-allied, they are not targeted.
The U.S. has spent billions fighting terrorism
around the world. After over a decade, the
government is still paying for wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan. To learn just how much money
has been allocated to the War On Terror, watch
our video here. Thanks for watching TestTube
News don’t forget to like and subscribe
for new videos every day.
