so the issue of who to let into this
country and who not to let in this
country is about as old as the country
itself it's an issue that America has
debated since the early 19th century and
we've admitted people from nearly every
single country since but it hasn't
really been an even admission process
so this land represents 200,000 legal
immigrants to the US and we're gonna
stack them up to see when they came to
the US and where they came from so early
on most for European largely Irish
German and British and they're also
Chinese and Canadian immigrants but in
1882 the u.s. passed the Chinese
Exclusion Act which banned Chinese
immigration for ten years that was
extended and then made permanent and it
wasn't repealed for 61 years of economic
depression of the 1890s decreased the
European integration and nearly stopped
Canadian immigration entirely but after
the depressions of demographics of
immigrants changed and there was a rise
in Russia in Italian Spanish and
Japanese immigrants in 1917 the u.s.
banned immigration from Asian countries
entirely except for the Philippines of
Japan in 1921 the u.s. captivation based
on nationality this severely limited the
ability to immigrate to the US for
people not from the Western Hemisphere
or a country with older roots in the
u.s. than the Great Depression happened
all immigration plummeted then world war
ii happened the u.s. refused to increase
immigration caps for 20,000 Jewish
children fleeing Nazi rule it also
stopped naturalization proceedings for
Italians Germans and Japanese in 1952
the u.s. stopped excluding immigrants
based on race but more stringent quotas
meant most slots were still for Western
Europeans in 1965 the quota system was
entirely repealed it allowed for a far
more diverse ripple from events
particular
Central America and South America but
also Asia in the 1970s and 80s Asian
immigrants arrived in huge numbers
largely from the Philippines South Korea
India and Hong Kong the u.s. also
evacuated 130,000 people from Vietnam
after the war in the 1990s the u.s.
increased immigration caps to 700,000
annually country began to invest in
border security to discourage
unauthorized immigration but an exchange
allowed nearly 1.7 million Mexican
immigrants in 1990s immigration to the
u.s. is now more diverse than ever but
with the rise of Isis and the Syrian
refugee crisis common politicians are
again talking about which immigrant
groups to restrict if you want to see
how people from a specific country came
to the u.s. click here from the full
interactive
