If you store any personal information on a
computer, smartphone, or web service,
your data is at risk from two massive computer
security exploits: Spectre and Meltdown.
Two major flaws in computer chips, called "Meltdown" and "Spectre."
Technology firms are rushing to fix a security flaw identified in computer chips.
What makes Meltdown and 
Spectre especially sinister, aside from their
James Bondian names,
is that they affect your
computer at the hardware level:
the processors inside your devices.
And these flaws exist not because of a bug in
computer software design, but because of
a feature in computer hardware that has been
around since 1995.
Consumers expect computers to get faster and
faster each year.
The new Apple TV isn't just slightly faster,
it's remarkably faster.
We built the fastest, most responsive stylus experience ever.
To satisfy this insatiable need for increasingly
fast computers, chip developers added a function
to processors called Speculative Execution.
Processors are the chips inside a computer
that allow it to perform hundreds of billions
of calculations per second.
Think of it as the computer’s brain.
Speculative execution allows the computer
to guess what you might do next and perform
necessary calculations for those possible
outcomes, keeping one step ahead of you.
Imagine if your favorite coffee shop began
preparing your favorite orders ahead of time.
Your coffee is ready for you before you ask
for it and you’re in and out of the shop
faster than if you were to order from scratch
every time.
That’s speculative execution.
But what about the orders that were made that
you didn’t purchase?
Or what if you decide to order something else
entirely that day?
Those unused, pre-made orders...well, they
get trashed.
That’s the problem with speculative execution
— all those junked orders,
They’re not really protected.
Someone sorting through those trashed orders
might gain brief unauthorized access to your
name or your daily order.
But, of course, the information you keep on
your computer is probably a bit more sensitive
than your preference for almond milk.
Meltdown and Spectre exploit this feature
by using malicious code that tricks a computer
into speculatively loading information it
wouldn’t normally have access to.
And you — or an antivirus program — wouldn’t
necessarily know that someone is snooping
on your data since Meltdown and Spectre are
exploiting a normal function of your computer’s processor.
These exploits could allow a hacker to snoop
on data on a computer or a smartphone, or even in the cloud.
Spectre allows a malicious program or code
to trick other applications, using a shared
processor, into loading sensitive information
that it would normally keep secure and separate
between the programs.
Meltdown works slightly differently — instead
of tricking one application into revealing
sensitive information to another, it exploits
the relationship between the application and
the computer’s memory — but in the end,
the results are the same: compromised data
While Software companies are rolling out patches
to help guard against Meltdown, that protection
comes at a cost.
And in some cases, those patches could make
a computer operate slower.
Though software patches can prevent some Spectre
attacks, it really requires new hardware to
be designed and implemented to completely
fix the problem.
And that means many devices could be vulnerable
to Spectre attacks for decades,
as devices are upgraded.
But don’t let that stop you from installing
patches and protecting your data now.
Seriously, that would not be smart.
It was our need for speed that got us into
this mess in the first place..
And good security nearly always comes with a compromise
