You probably imagine anonymous internet commenter,
or a shock jockey,
or a partisan hack. You probably
don't imagine the Senate Majority Leader,
or the Speaker of the House of
Representatives or the Chairman of the
House Intelligence Committee.
But maybe
you should, because if the past few
months of batshit political coverage
have shown us anything...
"Bombshell accusations", "missing text messages",
"secret societies",
"secret memos",
"one hell of a conspiracy",
"that does go deeper than Watergate". "Deeper than Watergate?"
It's that trolling is now the work of
serious politicians.
We begin tonight
with the unraveling of a conspiracy
theory - this one was created and promoted
by elected officials on Capitol Hill.
Trolling has been used to refer to a lot of
different bad behaviors, but at its heart
it means deliberately provoking someone
in order to bait them into overreacting.
Milo Yiannopoulos does this all the
time.
He says something he knows is
ridiculous.
and then smiles as the audience freaks out.
Because I don't want to spend a whole
video talking about Milo, let's use a
different example.
Let's use Charlie Brown.
What?!
Let's just go with me.
You've watched this scene a million times, right?
Lucy promises to let Charlie Brown kick
the ball, Charlie tries to kick it, she
pulls it away and he falls flat on his ass.
This scene is basically trolling 101.
The troll baits their target "I'll hold
the ball and you kick it". The target gives
the desired reaction,
"this time I'm gonna kick that football clear to the moon."
And then the truth is revealed
the troll was just leading
them on.
"what does this have to do -"
"I'm getting there!"
So how would this formula work if you're
trying to troll a major news network?
First you'd need the bait.
Promise reporters you have some big bombshell
they have to pay attention to.
"Republican lawmakers claiming they have
documents, classified memos, secret memos,
to prove widespread abuse by the FBI".
"What I read it is as bad as I thought it
was. The entire Mueller investigation is a lie."
Then you get a reaction: days of
wall-to-wall news coverage about what
might be in your super secret memo.
"The secret memo at the center of an
extraordinary plan. We don't know what's
in the memo. As a journalist I want to
see what's in the memo. Should that be
released to the public? Have you
decided if you'll release the memo? Why not allow people to look at it?
You've read the memo? I read the memo.
And? Well obviously I can't tell you what's
in the memo.
So I can't discuss what was
in the memo, but I can tell you the
American people need to see it." And then
the reveal: your big bombshell turns out
to be a dud.
"The memo has now been
released, this memo is a dud, a complete
dud. It doesn't say anything it calls
into question the wider Mueller probe. It
over-promised and under-delivered, the
revelation is precisely the opposite of
what they wanted to reveal." And news
networks have to explain to their
viewers that the scandal they've been
following for days, was actually nothing.
"They build it up, they build it up,
and then it's about nothing."
"This is what all the hype was about?"
Now at first glance this story has a happy
ending, right? The truth eventually came out.
But if you view this story as a
giant troll, it looks very different.
News networks spent days telling audiences
that a huge scandal could be brewing.
Millions of people read headlines about
the FBI potentially being corrupt and
Republicans got to go on TV and tell their
supporters that they're right to be
suspicious of the Mueller investigation.
"I'm good with a memo coming out because
it exposes the FBI coming after a
political opponent.
Uh, okay it's not an answer to my question."
The beauty of trolling is that the truth
doesn't actually matter.
When Lucy says
"This time you can trust me. See? Here's a signed document."
She knows she's lying. And she knows she's going to get caught lying.
When Charlie tries to kick the ball she is
literally fact-checking her, but the
point isn't to be honest. It's to provoke
a response, to get Charlie to try and
kick or in the case of the Nunes memo, to
get the media to overreact.
"The juice better be worth the squeeze on this one,
this is like six news cycles now.
"Well I'm excited to find out what's in the
memo"
And though we typically think of
trolling as something people do for fun,
in politics it has way scarier
consequences. For one it's a great way to
distract the news cycle
away from serious stories.
The same week that Nunes started talking about the memo,
the New York Times reported that Trump
had seriously considered firing Mueller.
Look at which story dominated cable news
chyrons.
But it's not just a focus
problem, this kind of trolling works
because audiences remember negative
information even when it's been debunked.
Political scientist Emily Thorson ran
an experiment where people were exposed
to a piece of negative political
information and then saw a correction.
And she found that people's attitudes
towards the target of the lie got worse
even after the lie was debunked.
She calls this "belief echoes" and that's when
people are given a full clear correction.
Most casual news consumers won't get
that or if they do, they'll see headlines
like this.
"Republicans released secret
memo accusing investigators of bias."
"Memo released alleging FBI cover-up."
Or chyrons like this.
"Memo says FBI abused surveillance power."
Even after the lie is
revealed, it's repeated in news coverage.
The result is a news environment that
incentivizes bad faith, that rewards
politicians who are willing to commit to
a lie. And so you've seen more and more
pseudo scandals following the same
formula.
There's the bait, missing text messages,
a secret society in the FBI,
"it's one hell of a conspiracy and people
at the top levels of our government were
involved in it. A secret society, there's
anything more about that? No, we have to
dig into it. That's that's this is not a
distraction."
There's the reaction.
"The startling allegations of a secret
society, is there any basis to that claim?
Is there a secret society?
Those things are troubling."
And eventually there's the reveal.
"Republican lawmakers are left
empty-handed, when the texts are found
and the secret society is revealed to be
a joke."
On their own, none of these
stories hold water but together, they
help sow doubt in the minds of voters.
Help build a vague but persistent belief
echo.
are we seriously still talking about the secret society Ben?
Which helps explain why so many Republican voters
are now suspicious of the FBI.
A trend that's gotten worse over the past year.
Unsurprisingly, Nunes is already
promising to release more memos in the future.
"He told Brett Baier tonight that
more memos are coming, stay tuned. Tick-tock."
And the sad thing is he'll
probably generate the same media circus
when he does.
What politicians say is
newsworthy.
"I'm shocked to read exactly what has taken place."
Networks can't just ignore
them, the way that we might block an
internet troll. And what makes trolling
in politics so effective is that it's
almost impossible to prove while it's
happening.
Charlie could never be sure if
Lucy is gonna yank the ball away.
The audience can never really know if Milo
means what he's saying,
and journalists can't know if the next Nunes memo is
actually a bombshell until he releases
it.
But what they can do is practice more
restraint, to treat these stories not as
potential bombshells, but as potential
bait and to be aware of the way that
their coverage might be playing into the
hands of a troll.
Charlie may never be
able to resist trying to kick the ball,
but if he holds back a little bit, if he
avoids kicking quite, so hard he can at
least avoid falling flat on his ass.
