Every ten years, states have to redraw their
voting districts.
In most cases, politicians get to control
that process.
And if they're clever about how the districts
are drawn, they can make it easier for their
own party to win more of them.
It's called "Partisan Gerrymandering".
And Pennsylvania is the latest state to get
busted for it.
So when you redistrict, there's a phenomenal
degree of possible manipulation.
Almost any shape you want to make is possible.
Professor Cho is a political scientist who
developed an algorithm that can spot unfair
maps.
The Court wants to be able to determine the
intent behind the district maps.
Basically they want to read the mind of the
map drawer.
It doesn't have any way to do this.
Politicians have to follow a certain criteria
when they're making a new map.
Some criteria are required by law, for instance
we have to have about the same number of people
in every district and all districts have to
be contiguous.
In Pennsylvania, these districts also have
to be compact.
Then, there's other criteria that the Supreme
Court has emphasized when they make decisions
about redistricting.
The Court wants districts that preserve political
subdivisions like cities, counties, municipal
boundaries.
So whenever you find an identifiable community
of likeminded individuals, Court likes it
when those people are kept together in the
same district.
Pennsylvania's districts were deemed partisan
because of that last guideline.
If you look at the 2011 map, the lines are
all contiguous and each district has a roughly
equal population.
But the map also divides up several counties,
which violates traditional districting principles.
And that made it easier for Republicans to
win congressional seats in the state.
The popular vote in the House race was basically
equal in both elections that used this map,
but the Republicans won more than twice the
number of seats in Congress.
Then a group of voters sued.
And the Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled that
the map had to change.
This is the new map.
The lines are still contiguous and the population
is still proportionate.
But now, only 13 counties are split up instead
of 28.
That protects the traditional districting
principles.
The Republican party plans to countersue,
arguing that the new map will favor Democrats.
They hope to win as many as five more congressional
seats in Pennsylvania because of it.
And those seats could be a part of a larger
shift in power in the House of Representatives.
Which is why the fight over these two maps
is so heated.
And it's also why Pennsylvania probably won't
be the last state to get called out for gerrymandering.
