This past April, Google removed ads for numerous
Crisis Pregnancy Centers, because they were
misrepresenting their services and intentionally
misleading pregnant woman who were seeking
information about abortions.
We’re aware of the fact that abortion is
a controversial issue with passionate people
on both sides and a lot of ethically grey
areas that even the most reasonable person
would have a hard time sussing out. But most
people can agree that there are ethical and
unethical ways to fight for a cause you believe
in. The accusation being made now by pro-choice
groups, and in the past by members of congress
and New York State’s Attorney General, is
that Crisis Pregnancy Centers are using unethical
practices to trick pregnant woman into hearing
their anti-abortion rhetoric. So, what are
Crisis Pregnancy Centers and why are they
coming under such harsh criticism?
Well, Crisis Pregnancy Centers are establishments
set up by Pro-Life organizations that offer
counseling and support to pregnant women - which
on its face, sounds relatively harmless. But
according to information uncovered by numerous
organizations, in practice, the support these
centers offer is exclusively designed to mislead
and discourage pregnant woman from considering
abortion as an option.
A lot of these centers are funded by Heartbeat
International, who, according to their website,
“want to make abortion unwanted today
and unthinkable for future generations”.
In search of that goal, some of the facilities
they and other groups fund, are reportedly
spreading misinformation about the physical
and emotional effects of terminating a pregnancy.
They’re also keeping women from finding
out about all of their options, and showing
them inaccurate or misleading films or pictures
in order to shock or frighten them out of
seeking those options. Some are even tricking
women into delaying their decision on the
issue, because in most states - the longer
you wait, the harder it is to legally terminate
your pregnancy.
These facilities also look like medical offices
and are staffed with people who look like
medical professionals, even though most are
not trained or licensed to practice medicine.
Their advertising also looks like ads for
facilities that offer a full range of care,
including abortions, but as we said, they
do not offer abortions and are intentionally
misrepresenting their services.
If you’d like more information on this topic,
please check out the links below. And if you
want more coverage of similar issues, please
check out our Social 
Issues playlist. We release five videos a
week, subscribe to the channel to get all
of those.
