Over the past few years, the United States
and China have grown considerably closer.
However they have simultaneously, and repeatedly
voiced grievances about each other’s economic
and military actions.
Some US officials have been particularly vocal
about their distrust of China, and polls from
2014 show that more than half of Americans
hold unfavorable views about China.
Yet, it is no secret that China is a major
key to a number of US goals.
So, why does the US need China?
Well, among its chief complaints, the US is
concerned about Chinese manipulation of its
currency, as well as the extreme difficulty
American manufacturers face when trying to
establish businesses in China.
There is also little intellectual rights enforcement,
and even international hacking rings with
ties to the Chinese government.
Moreover, the US’s recent naval incursion
in the South China Sea have raised questions
about the US’s role in defending countries
with claims to the region, including China.
But realistically, the US is incredibly dependent
on China’s economy, and vice versa.
China is the largest exporter of manufactured
products into the United States, so any inflation
within China would immediately hurt American
consumers.
China also imports huge amounts of capital
from states like California, where exports
have risen to $22 billion dollars as of 2012.
China is also the largest purchaser of US
Treasury Bonds, roughly $1.3 trillion dollars’
worth, and by extension, a significant portion
of the US’s massive debt.
Not only does the US need China to buy debt,
China needs the US to continue paying that
debt.
But the US also needs China in non-economic
matter too.
In North Korea and Iran, the threat of nuclear
proliferation has only recently seen some
measure of control.
Before the easing of sanctions in Iran, China
was the country’s largest purchaser of crude
oil, holding significant bargaining power.
Similarly, China is one of North Korea's few
remaining allies, making it possible to facilitate
negotiation.
Six-party talks between North Korea and the
world powers have been repeatedly encouraged
by China, which has tense but cooperative
relations with the Hermit Kingdom.
Finally, although China is one of the largest
polluters in the world, they are also at the
forefront of green energy which aligns directly
with US interests.
China’s environmental actions are seen as
a guide for other developing countries, particularly
in Africa.
Without China, the US would have considerable
difficulty convincing the world to go green.
Despite complaints about each other, it is
a simple fact that growth in both countries
is dependent on them getting along.
The stronger they are economically and militarily,
the more control they are able to exert over
the rest of the world.
And in the end, this may simply be a case
of “if you can’t beat ‘em, join ‘em”.
