tem. So guys, make sure you watch all the way to the end of the video i am a idiot
Probably give it away to some of you guys Martin. I think he's gonna give some things to me in you man
You know, I'm talking about team morgz
Now we're gonna kick off with this backpack right here I'm judging by the look of it this was probably like a little boy
Morgan yours was a lot more pink than that one you guys we're gonna crack into this right now
Look you mind what is in that doesn't look like it's gonna be interesting very interesting
Very okay. So kick it off we
Okay, yeah mom you sure this wasn't my backpack because again
This is like a toy that I used to have when I was young
I think you may have just got one of my old backpacks Morgan you didnt used to have a Barbie sorehead thing
You want a Peppa Pig toy you preferred Peppa Pig. Anyway, you know what? This looks absolutely
Beautiful. I mean she's got the same color hair  as me  for a star even though I do prefer Peppa Pig need this picture
So you can go right over there. We're already off to a great start
Okay, next up
whoa
This bart again. It's not bart .Oh, man. Oh, yeah. We got homer simpson. Teddy guys. Nice build
How much do you think its  worth ,more than pound 20?
\\\\\\\\\\\\\Pounds guys, we've already made profit on this bag. Okay, this feels interesting. This could be expert huh? Oh,
My gosh they are so dope forget my Gucci sunglasses. Is it gucci
Gucci Gucci Gucci Gucci  Gucci very cool Gucci
Rather hold back. Okay. This is getting a bit weird now and then what looks like okay well
Back scrubber back scrubber what kind of young  princess takes a back scrubber on holiday
Okay guys, so by the looks of it that was the first bag a bit
Weird one guys
Well, I I didn't do anything well I guess we got the Homer Simpson teddy we got the Barbie oh, oh
Oh cool, that's a good back scratch  that's very good.I think maybe I'll I'll keep keep this
Obviously as well as all the dope stuff inside the bag we have this fresh new bag mom
The question is which bag is fresher the MGZED bag or the princess
Morgan its the princess
Well what can I say the bag is pretty dope for the next bit of lost luggage we've got this brown bag right here
What do you think could be in this up to me? Looks like a man-bag to be honest
You guys know I'm a little bit of a fashion icon and I would not be seen dead with this bag. It's ugly
It looks like something my grandpa would wear Morgan
I don't think grandpa would even wear that anyway, who knows maybe we'll find some dope stuff inside
Hear we go Oh
Would you look at that forget what I said about this guy not being fashionable he got one of the gold signature tees what a
Coincidence I think the guy probably got it on sale because if you don't know already
These hoodies are on sale right now and guys
this is the last chance to get one of these hoodies because they are selling and they're gonna be sold out in a
Morgan you just put the hoodie in the bag you did? Admit it
Okay, I put it in the bag but their going off sale soon so cop one while you can  morgz.co link in the description
First its , oh perhaps its not a man bag , its cute it is pretty cute not gunna lie thanks morgan ill have that one
Who has wipes in the same bag oh my gosh  the new YEEZYS ITS THE NEW YEEZYS MOM LOOK
ITS THE NEW YEEZYS  WITH VELCO THEIR WORTH 1,000 POUND
Mind what the new easy fashionable mood
I
Know
Guys oh my
Gosh
Oh my gosh, oh
My gosh, oh are you thinking what im thinking , oh yeah
My god darling you look stunning you look like a new man
Well, can't wait to see what the next item is in the bag Morgan were did morgan go  morgan , where are you
I
Only know mr. Morgan
So, where were we Morgan
Mr. Morgan
Well, mr. Morgan, we're just going to look in the back at the next item please assist me down
Please I'm waiting
Well ladies
The next item in the bag is
Mr. Mort
Ruin my day. Whoever that gentleman was. Okay Marvin. It may not flipping Avenue. Are you gonna keep the suit Morgan?
Maybe I looks like there's only one more item in
Thank God
Hold on. Hold on guys, forget all the all the messing about. I think we just found some real Beats headphones
Morgan are they worth a lot of money barely a scratch on?
What you think you're doing what I think you're doing what what do they got I
Don't want them. Anyway, I've got my glasses
You know what guys I said it I saw the video if we found anything valuable, I'd give it away
so
If you want these headphones or anything else that we have found and are gonna find in this video
All you have to do is subscribe to the channel and then comment down below which item you want
I'm gonna be going through the comments. I'm thinking some of you guys to win the item
Morgan I've commented beats headphones
No, no
Subscribe next up guys. We're gonna be cracking into the biggest suitcase
Toys what is it? Oh, it's the baby's toys
It's a little baby top, you know what it may be for babies, but I kind of low key think its fire
I think maybe I should just oh
That's so cold. Does it suits me? Yeah, just string it up a little bit. Yeah. Oh, that's good. Oh my gosh
Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall
All the king's horses and all the king's men could
Yes, I can read oh
My god Julien Bruno's new friends. Yeah
But you did yeah you did new sunglasses
They look good - look pretty good. Yeah. How are these?
No. No, these are mine. Don't break them
So in this next the Luggage
Samantha that color would look much better on me and I'm gonna need to put false tissue down there
That was mine. I just think that would look so much better on me
Kristin shush. Oh you touch my hair
Sorry about her guys, but next up in the luggage you've got a bunch more weird clothing
I don't think any of this is valuable. It all just looks a little bit
It doesn't really look nice or not meant for me though
we've got this bra which my gift  to kira not sure if it fit her though, you know, I mean
We've got this handbag waiting money money, that could be money in there
Wait another one purse purse Oh was our scenes
And then next up we have a nice little makeup set
And we've got some mascara
Morgan that's for your lips. That's a lip gloss. Shut up, Samantha
Just stop it. Oh
My gosh, but wait wait, do you see what is it's some perfume
Gucci Gucci. No, this is a actually Gucci smorgan you said that about the last one No, seriously
Look Gucci Guilty. Do you see this is perfume. Hold on
That's very nice
You know guys
I could probably sell this for like 50 pounds Gucci perfume us a grapevine
Again Pablo if you want this and then if you didn't believe me ask you chi we've even got this
Gucci
It feels so nice feel love, what is it
And then in there you've just got a bunch of junk you've got a card book another book yeah, I think I
Put things in the pockets when I have a case, I always put things in it
I told you there's nothing in the pocket. Okay? Okay. You're right again. Wait, I
Think I think I feel something. Oh, what's it?
Was it oh my gosh, is it gold necklace Oh a real gold necklace looks gold. That's gold
Yeah, guys, seriously. I swear that looks like gold
Shut up baldie get a hat
Okay, we've got two or more cases here we're gonna do them at the same time whatevers in that case
She gets whatevers in this case, I get so  open in three two one
Whoa, hold on that looks like these the girls came this looks like it's a boys case
I won't be able to get that one on not even losing weight recently. Yeah, we'll try. Can I wear like this?
Come on come on
Anyway, I've got a Finding Nemo pillow, which is pretty sick. She's got a teddy, whoa
cards
Hold on yo cramsey
Football booze guys. Hold on. I think that's my size. Didn't I can fit into that mine squeeze me squeeze Cinderella gay for you gone
This guy's also
The shoes, you know so many shoes what's that that's my shoes it just matches. Yeah
Well, I've got Hein up or sunglasses. Oh
That girl there's a red mark on his hand
It's a dance song we've got a USB cable, I've got toys I've got some dolls and dolls and dolls and
Dolls of indolence. Yeah. Well, you know what? I doesn't matter what else you've got. I've got the riding
My sweet legs Oh
Scooter riding I don't even why do you like anyway?
anyway, look oh
My god, oh my god. She's losing that
Come on
Guys are you ready in three two one?
Oh
Oh
My gosh
You know to free
Honestly did not think we were just guessing
This means
Oh
My gosh we are the safe breakers and we just broke into
This briefcase and now it's time to find out what is inside
Okay, this is a big moment moon shooter on three
Three two one. Oh
No way Oh a company
Oh, whoa. Whoa, whoa, wait a sec
Okay, a key to what guys oh my god. What is it key to the hotel you could be to like a shed a house?
Like no house key. Yeah, but we don't know an address or anything. Yeah, of course. I think it could be his house
but at the same time like just crazy guys some sort of crazy hidden key in this one is ah,
Nothing in this one here. There's one more. Ah
Nothing got key so far maybe these ones. Oh gosh. Only. What? Oh, oh, I don't see that. What do you say anything?
I didn't see that's
a
Must the pieces from Dresden Houston what what other of nobodies it's an artist at least we know now
that is the business man's briefcase because of stuff like this in here Oh,
wire another wire
Know where yo, this blue does not seem like the type of guy that would have a phone
These are the type of guys that would still be using like a telephone
Where you twist it round to call or maybe I can knock your phone or flip phone glasses calm down. It's probably anything
We've got oh, hold on some space. Oh
Okay
You can have them the hub with your eyes, you know, they don't seem to be even been working very well. I love them. I
Love them. Wait. What is it? What do you see? What is it? Google Play gift card Oh, hold on God. Has it been used
Whoa, guys guys guys. You thousan been redeemed Jack? I don't use Android guys
so again
subscribe to the channel and comment down below if you want this and I'll reply to one of you with this code and then in
this pocket the last thing is
Vaseline has he been used
It's not very good that is it no there's more Parkers. Well, I don't think it's a matter now to be fair come on
Well, ferry over look, I'm not optimistic about this one at all
This is that a pretty poor show visit automata what you got?
What you got I'll see got mine, huh, where you go, oh you got more
Okay your face what some of your face but you got? Okay. What you doing? Well, it's this is shiny
It's holidays Finn it almost feels like I'm almost feels like a phone never look
It's an iPhone. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god. It's an iPhone
Is it does it work Oh Michael. Wait. Wait, does it work? Does it work?
Do they work? Oh I think it's broken. Oh
It needs charging, how's that? What the why is the what?
Which are you? Oh, yeah chuckles. Yeah, okay
Here's my phone guys, by the way, like this isn't ah, whoo. This isn't even an iPhone X
So it's not even the iPhone look that lumps if you think we're jokin here
This is genuinely we've never seen this one before please give us anything
So if we press the on bottom right now and the battery symbol comes on the screen, that means it works three
two
one
Anything over oh
My gosh, no way no way works. It works guys. Look it's not the charge simple
Condition
We pulled the case that's a boom. Oh my god, or should we give it away time. I felt maybe we should well I've got
102 guys akk if you wanted an iPhone
I mean, I'll be surprised if you don't want an iPhone because maybe you don't subscribe to the channel comment down below
Oh my gosh, I can't believe this is like that's the best thing we've found
Oh, but we could find it straight away it was like in one of them it was hidden away
I don't think you can get any better than an iPhone, but three two one
No, no way no way no way no way no way no way no way no way. No way. Oh my god. Ah
Oh my gosh, oh my gosh, come on, come on, is it real true?
Oh
My gosh wait look look
Those fillers as well and look look look genuine leather. This is a leather wallet
Thank you very much you can keep the dollars one two
Three four dollars. It's a cord. Oh, I'll keep this and Bonaire love this and a wallet. Yeah
I think this is only about four pounds, right?
That one $1 bills these are
20. Okay. I'll keep these okay
hmm
Ma'am, I want some of that help you we want to share
Thank you guys comment down below on the video if you want any of the stuff in this video we've got iPhone got headphones
We've got a gold necklace beauty spray a wallet literally so much stuff
And if you won the money to comment down below I might even give some of that away
I'd rather you guys having a moment more ting
Terrible we help you with everything. Yeah, booty balls are the true legends guys subscribe
if you're new calling down below what you want and I'll see you in my
next video Oh
