1,000,000 packing peanuts delivery coming up!*mom goes crazy mad
I have 1 million packing peanuts
Music
What am I meant to do with this? Do not touch me. Go, Go Martin, omg
(Morgz looking excited with the new Morgz merch!)
Yo
guys it's Morgz and today I'm coming at you with my best
And my most expensive prank ever
Right here guys, I have 1,000,000 packing peanuts ( damn thats a lot of peanuts)
Literally this isn't even a joke.
I paid £500 for all this ($635 for Americans)
Believe all no guys, I'm not gonna be using these to fill a box and send something
I'm gonna be filling my mom's room with them. Martin do you think we will have enough?  No, I don't think so
There is not many in there mate. Now guys just before we, begin the prank
I'm gonna set you a little challenge everybody get your fingers ready because this is gonna be an intense one in the past
I've given you seven seconds to like and subscribe
Six seconds to like and subscribe!
Right now I’m only giving you five seconds to hit that subscribe button and like the video! Count down with me!
Thats it guys and you know what Martin whould be a little bit crazy in this video very crazy. Do you guys have another five seconds to comment down below
packing peanuts
5 4 3 2 1 (comment down below)
If you manage to type that in five seconds you are crazy
And also if you guys enjoyed this video, I might even build my mom's car with these after we're done
So you better all subscribe so you don't miss that
Martin where do we start here? Like literally, where do we start? One of these bags is about the size of you
And I know . You're a little bit small. You're not quite six foot three
But, you know we this is gonna take a lot of work, but I hope you're prepared
Oh, oh, yeah, come on then bro. Let's get going. Let's just jump straight into this
Oh
Ma, um try twisting a little bit twist it round. Yeah, come on, you can you can do it, bro
Come on, Oh broke stuff just broke
Come on, you can do this Martin. You can do this
Come On
This is gonna be one long video
Oh go on Oh, what a goal
Morgan please. Can I have some Help it's hard work, but wait wait wait Martin
Do you not know it's the world cup Morgan world cup didn't think I'm bothered about basketball
I need some help skip basketball. Okay, a sake ping pong table tennis table hammer bullet
I want some help now. Okay. Okay fine
gosh
I do not get paid enough for this
Ladies and gentlemen this way here may just look like a normal bag of packing peanuts. However this bag
Represents the journey that we are going on right now
This is one small parting peanuts, but that is a step towards a goal that
Mankind have been working
Without further adieu. Are you ready Martin? I'm ready 3,2,1
I think you need a hole at the bottom
Are you doing oh
My god any gonna scoop my elbow down now
Pause don't follow you will get the monetize guys. Here we go. The first is in the room
Music
Guys, let's go sneak up on mom
Boo!
Well, we just want to come down and say every day's been good we've got some time away from us to be nice
Very sorry
Yeah, we watch the World Cup on
Packing peanuts
no one fucking people why we got a what strange relevant might be why think II think II and
Tips might lost upon you back like furthermore sockets is that ways they won't impede us because you just be doing something something
 
(Morgan getting caught)
Yeah yeah
You don't need to come up and check your room
 
I can't see facial expression. So Mon, she's happy right over the nose
Stupid idiot. Why would you do this? Why would you do this to my room did you do it with?
You can just do this
Mother honestly just jump off. It's so much fun. I know you'll enjoy it
Marnell can't you see I don't trust you anymore, and I don't trust you anymore. Honestly, just shake my hand
Mom honestly, it's okay. Just take my hand. I'll pull you all I can do it
I'm stronger than you have to trust me we can get
One more good
Defeat you climb the don't you know, nobody know cuz you're not using your clever know if you throw that me don't
That's one. That's one of them too many out
You don't
I am very unhappy with you boo
Can I even leave you for one day on your own for a few hours before you do this? It was idea will say
Well, I'm on one last thing. No, no, wait do not touch me
Fucking don't don't do my job. I don't like
Just do it
Go away no way. I'm not looking go away
Martin just go get my phone, please. I will do a second
Why isn't mom answering just taking a really long time to answer
Did you know about this I had nothing to do with me that one not it no somebody ring ring ring ring
Give me a give me the phone go forward and pull you're gonna put it behind. Okay
Oh
Sorry, let's hope that savant we're tweaks you or something beside ringing it your foot over me no way. Oh
You know what mine oh
We've all that with all the penises made me so hungry. Oops
No, I'd like honestly I want to get some food and water but like I'm just so tired out. Maybe I'll just name is kolmad
Oh
Hi. Oh, hi mark
One more honestly, I've been meaning to say that since you arrived home basically like ever since ever since I started
I knew it would be a mistake and I'm just so tired and worn out and the mistake. Is that like I'm so tired
I just can't be bothered to go and get some food and drink. So would you mind going and get some for me?
I'm really hungry
We might have to go get some food for this one, I think we have made I think so to me camp
Okay, guys, it's been a few hours. It's mom's bad time right now. So I just thought I'd go in apologize
Maybe say sorry and just see how she's going to see if she's sleeping. Well, what do you think mine?
I think she might be sleeping. Well marry me - help me - lets go have a walk
Mayon well good. She's not bad. Oh
My my my mind I think she's drowned well she got it scattered round she's not that well getting the
I'm going again. I'm going to
Give me all the time Oh
guys, today's team all shout outs goes to these three legends right here from snapchat Instagram and Twitter if you wanna
Be the team all shout out in my next
Video go follow all three of my social medias on the screen right now
All the links are in the description below and also guys I've decided I'm gonna be dropping the gold
Signature hoodie that one got the most don'ts by far and I want to know when should I drop it guys call it down boy
when you want to get this
Holy because bro you guys seem to really want it so I want to give it to you
But as always guys, I've been mode you guys been awesome and I'll see you in my next video. Peace
out
