Hillary Clinton has announced she's
ready to come out of the woods mrs.
Clinton's remarks at a recent st.
Patrick's Day rally referred to the fact
that she has spent a good deal of time
walking in the forests near her ex urban
home in Chappaqua New York ever since
her surprising and humiliating and
crushing and well deserved and
humiliating and sort of hilarious and
totally humiliating defeat by Donald
Trump in her bid to become the first
utterly corrupt female president of the
United States in the wake of that
election disappointed Democrats have
reportedly been taking pilgrimages to
Chappaqua in hopes of catching sight of
the reclusive mrs. Clinton in the woods
the Democrats who had been absolutely
certain mrs. Clinton was going to win
the election hiked into the forests
where they were absolutely certain they
would see elves fairies and unicorns as
well as a socialist system that works
those who have seen mrs. Clinton in the
woods report that the defeated
humiliated disgraced and humiliated
former candidate for dishonest president
spent her time in the forests pulling
thorns from the hooves of wounded deer
learning the art of song from the
twittering birds and teaching Hawks how
to make that loud piercing screeching
noise when they descend from on high to
shred and devour their prey the woodland
Democrats say they have returned from
their Clinton pilgrimage inspired to
build a wall around the forest to
protect mrs. Clinton's natural habitat
and ensure she can escape to re-enter
politics but mrs. Clinton says she has
now healed the emotional wounds she
suffered during her humiliating and
crushing and humiliating humiliation and
also defeat which was very humiliating
mrs. Clinton says she now wants to
return to a life of service to the
country though she's not yet certain
whose life that will be and how she can
get hold of it but mrs. Clinton's wounds
from her unprecedented and humiliating
defeat have not just been emotional and
humiliating they've also been financial
not to mention humiliating
shortly after mrs. Clinton lost her bid
to become the first soulless female
communist president doe
nations to the Clinton Foundation
reportedly dried up as donors realized
the humiliated candidate would no longer
be able to sell her political influence
for cash Chauncey she had no political
influence after her humiliating defeat
however word that mrs. Clinton would be
returning to public life could change
all that as Democrats can be expected to
rally around her calling for her to once
more enter the political fray and lead
them to disaster that should fill the
gap until her daughter Chelsea is ready
to enter political life and lead
Democrats to a whole new generation of
humiliation and defeat meanwhile back in
the woods visitors have reported seeing
squirrels deer and raccoons gathered in
forest groves to drink champagne and
smoke celebratory cigars as one chipmunk
told reporters quote
we thought she'd never leave that
screeching Hawk noise she made was
absolutely hellish unquote Democrats
have formed a committee to see if the
chipmunk should run for president
trigger warning
I'm Andrew Clavin and this is the Andrew
Clavin show
