With SUV’s growing in popularity, it only made sense to get some on this show.
So, in this review, we’re going to compare three of the best rated luxury SUV’s on the market.
This isn’t going to be easy.
We got our hands on an Audi Q5, a Porsche Cayenne GTS, and a BMW X5.
I’ve decided to spend a day in the Hamptons with each of them, to get an in-depth look.
Now this is This is the Q5, it’s Audi’s mid-sized SUV
and it starts at about $41,000.
Which is way more affordable than the other two cars that we’re looking at.
This is kind of like the IPhone of luxury SUV’s. It’s designed so well
but it’s also affordable within the segment.
This is a 4-cylinder all-wheel drive, 7 speeds, automatic with paddle shifters. 252 horsepower, and there’s no lag.
Immediate power, immediate response, the minute you step on the gas, you’re there.
The Q5 has by far the most futuristic interior of the three cars. It’s minimal, It’s clean.
The sunroof spans the entire width of the ceiling. It’s really cool
There’s plenty of room for 5 adults, lots of headroom, but this is the smallest car of the ones that we’re testing.
The trunk is 29 cubic feet,
which is in the middle of our range. A family on a trip might have trouble fitting everything in.
There are other cars that are more powerful, that look more distinct,
but it’s also really affordable and Audi has really kind of hit a sweet spot.
So how did it add up?
The immediate response really made me feel in control. The Horsepower was a little weaker at 252
and the 22 mpg means this is the middle of the road.
Looks-wise, it was a bit conservative.
It’s the smallest of our three but with a sleek interior
And the pricing is the best at 41 thousand dollars.
Now this is the BMW X5 hybrid. That means it gets 56 miles per gallon combined between the electric motor
and the conventional engine. This car starts at $62,000, so it’s right in the middle of our group.
The electric motor and the engine switch off depending on what drive mode, how fast you’re going, all of that.
What you won’t find out from the stats on the website, is how big this car feels when you sit in it,
and how small it drives. It’s a nice balance.
So, the interior, it’s not as futuristic, it’s not as clean and modern feeling, but it’s also a little less full of
buttons and levers and gauges
This does feel like it’s the roomiest of the three.
I think a lot of it has to do with the natural light. The most visibility for sure.
And with the seats in use, the trunk still comes up with nearly 36 cubic feet, which is massive.
To recap, The handling was exceptional. 308 horsepower is middle of our range.
And an amazing 56MPG with the combined electric motor. It was sporty without being over aggressive.
The roomiest but with a toned-down interior.
And at 62K, it’s midrange for our selection.
Now the third car in our group is a Porsche Cayenne GTS. This is a higher tuned version of Porches Cayenne
and it starts fittingly at 97 thousand dollars, that’s by far the most expensive of any car of our group
and it’s also our most powerful.
Porsche was among the first of the luxury car makers to introduce an SUV.
It really sets the standard for a lot of things.
The engine here is a 3.6 liter V6 twin turbo charged engine.
440 horsepower, it’s almost double the horsepower of the Audi.
443 foot pounds of torque,
and you definitely feel it when you push the gas pedal.
The thing that you notice, are the buttons, and levers, and knobs,
and vents. So, if you’re someone who likes those cockpit stuff to play with,
you’re going to love this car.
This trunk was actually the smallest at 24 cubic feet.  but after you put the seats down, you’ll get by.
It drives fast. it feels really luxurious inside. it’s really striking to look at.
It just costs a lot of money
Ok, This car was the most powerful. 440 horsepower 434 foot-pounds of torque.
Unfortunately, only 19 mpg combined.
This is a true sports car in SUV form,
It had decent space and the interior was loaded with gadgets.
But the downside I’d say is price. 97 thousand dollars, means this car will dig deep in your wallet.
The luxury SUV segment is a competitive field.There are a lot of really confident players.
And these three are all excellent vehicles.
However, after three days of driving, I felt the BMW checked the most boxes
in terms of performance, agility, and style, and value.
Was it the fastest or most powerful? No. But it was the most versatile while moderately priced for a luxury SUV.
With the largest interior, the most visibility, and the fact that it’s a hybrid
with a 56 miles per gallon rating, that just pushes it over the edge.
This car is a great value, and anyone would be happy to have it.
