Americans own more guns than anybody else
on earth.
Firearms are involved in the deaths of more
than 33,000 people in the U.S. annually.
Every time another mass shooting occurs in
the U.S.,
it sparks arguments over gun ownership rights.
Here's the situation.
In 2017, pro-gun advocates got a boost when
Republicans gained control
of the White House and both chambers of Congress.
In February Congressional Republicans rolled
back a rule adopted by President Barack Obama
in 2016 that was aimed at preventing people with
serious mental health problems from buying guns.
"The yeas are 235 and the nays are 180. The joint resolution is passed."
But that was just the most recent time Congress
has dealt with gun restrictions.
Back in 2013, Congress defeated a bill to expand
background checks.
This was just months after a mass shooting
took place at Sandy Hook Elementary School
in Newtown, Connecticut where 20 children
were killed.
In the U.S., 25 children die from bullet wounds
each week.
Gun rules are largely determined by states.
Since 2013, Democrat led states like California
and Oregon have expanded gun restrictions.
Though a majority of states have weakened restrictions
and many now permit guns in more places.
Like schools, restaurants, churches and public
buildings.
Also all 50 states allow people to carry weapons
that are concealed from public view
and many states have expanded rights to use guns in
self defense.
The U.S.'s original gun law is almost as old
as the country itself.
The Second Amendment right of the people to
keep and bear arms was established in the
18th century to allow states to form militias
to protect themselves against the federal government.
In 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that
the amendment protected the
gun rights of individuals, not just militias.
As many as 310 million guns are now thought
to be in private hands.
Here's the argument.
The National Rifle Association...
"And let's fight for freedom."
and its allies argue that gun regulations
only hurt law abiding gun owners
because criminals simply ignore them.
Since Congress let a ban on assault weapons
expire in 2004,
violent crime in America has fallen significantly.
And fatal and non-fatal shootings have also
declined.
Meanwhile, gun control advocates say limiting
weapons will drive down gun related crimes.
And they point to Australia where strict gun
ownership laws
were enacted after a historic massacre in 1996.
Since then there have been 0 mass shootings.
And firearms related death rates have plummeted.
So while politicians try to tighten or loosen
gun laws from one administration to the next,
U.S. citizens continue to be caught in the
middle of this legislative gun fight.
