Picking the right pair of headphones for you can be tough.
You have to think about how much they cost,
what they look like, how way they fit on your head.
And obviously, you care about the sound.
Plus there are tons of brands that make them
The pair of wireless headphones that checks the most boxes for me
are the Sennheiser HD 1 wireless over ears.
The sound quality is wonderful.
base beats feel full and satisfyingly thunky,
middle notes are clean and bright.
And scratchy sounds or whispers have a very satisfying texture.
The noise-cancelling on the headphones is also really great.
If you’re walking on the street you won’t hear the people around you,
but if there’s a siren that goes by, you will hear that. As in you will hear the important things.
The one thing about the noise cancelling is that you can’t turn it on and off,
once it connects to your phone, it’s on. That might be a drawback for some people.
The materials are excellent.
All of the soft parts are sheaved in this creamy dark leather.
The cup pads are incredibly squishy and marshmallowy,
they feel really great along the side of your head.
And they don’t have that super firm grip that some headphones have.
The Bluetooth is totally seamless and totally easy.
It just takes one touch to link it with your phone.
Once you’re listening to music, the volume button also is the pause button and the skip ahead button.
You can feel it very easily without looking.
The set remains charged for up to 22 hours.
The Bluetooth range is remarkable I actually tested it out and I walked an entire city block away from my phone
and I had no disruption in any of the noise.
It will skip a little bit that’s how you know you’re at the end of your range,
but, a whole city block worth of bluetooth range is pretty good.
Fair warning,
All this quality comes at a price.
If you’re looking for a good pair of wireless headphones, it's gonna run you between $120 and $500.
The HD 1s are $499.95.
They are right at the tippy top of the range.
But
for the build quality,
the easy technology,
the great sound, and I think the overall handsomeness,
these are worth the investment
