North Korean leader Kim Jong Un likes to brag
about nuclear weapons...
His country is thought to possess as many
as 20 nuclear warheads.
Kim’s military has successfully tested a
wide variety of missiles, and, according to
defense analysts, has moved closer to its
aim of producing both a missile capable of
reaching north america and a nuclear warhead
compact enough to ride on it.
That’s why neighboring countries and the
U.S are all watching North Korea and its unpredictable
leader very closely.
Trump: It will be solved you can bet on that
Here’s the situation.
On september 9th, 2016, North Korea conducted
its strongest nuclear weapons test in a decade.
The 10 kiloton underground blast was almost
as powerful as the U.S. Bomb dropped on Hiroshima.
And in 2017 Kim Jong-Un warned of more nuclear
weapons tests, stepped up ballistic missile
testing, with some landing in the sea of japan,
and promised to test long-range missiles that
could reach north america.
In response, U.S. President donald trump said
he would consider all options.
we're probably not safe over here if he gets the long range missiles we're not safe either
After meeting with china’s president Xi
Jinping in april, trump agreed to work with
Beijing to find diplomatic solutions.
He later warned of a major, major conflict
with north korea should diplomacy fail.
In April the U.S. Installed a missile defense
system in South Korea.
And the chinese are not happy about having
the system’s surveillance capabilities in
their backyard.
China, North Korea’s only significant trade
partner, has been pressuring the country and
has suspended its coal purchases from there.
But the chinese are reluctant to push so hard
as to risk the collapse of north korea’s
government.
Meanwhile both south and north korea have
hundreds of thousands of troops deployed on
either side of the border.
Here’s the argument.
North Korea has a long history of escalating,
and then de-escalating tensions in order to
broker economic and diplomatic concessions.
Which leaves the U.S., and the world, in a
tricky position.
Most diplomatic situations call for a carrot
or stick approach.
Unfortunately, with North Korea, neither the
carrot, in the form of aid, nor the stick,
in the form of sanctions, has worked.
What’s left on the table is ever-stronger
sanctions, awaiting the downfall of the kim
dynasty, or military confrontation that risks
enormous casualties.
But doing nothing is dangerous, especially
considering kim’s erratic behavior.
He has executed top advisers including his
own uncle.
A senior defector went so far as to say that
as long as kim is in power, the country would
never give up its nuclear weapons, “even
if it’s offered $1 trillion or $10 trillion
in rewards.”
