Hackers today aren't like they were in those
80’s and 90’s movies.
“You want me to hack the planet?”
Now, cybercriminals can be state-sponsored,
breaking into servers and disrupting national
elections.
James Comey: One of the lessons they may draw
from this is that they were successful, because
they introduced chaos and division.
They can be a nefarious collective, blackmailing
a multinational billion-dollar corporation
by threatening to release piles of its sensitive
data.
Or they can be agents looking to expose the
C.I.A.'s own hacking capabilities.
These elite professionals are always finding
new ways to gain entry to government, industrial
and financial networks.
Luckily, as hackers get more sophisticated,
so are the safeguards protecting sensitive
data.
So here’s the situation…
Since 2005, more than 5,400 data breaches
in the U.S. have been disclosed, the biggest
being the Adobe hack in 2013 with 152 million
records being compromised.
Individuals aren’t the only ones at risk.
The U.S. has been battling an escalating cyber-war
with countries like China and Russia for years.
In 2016 multiple U.S. agencies concluded Russia
was behind the hacks of 20,000 Democratic
National Committee emails that were then posted
online, hoping to influence the election in
Donald Trump’s favor.
A conclusion Russian President Vladimir Putin
denies.
If proper precautions are taken, not all hack
attacks have unhappy endings.
In May, 2014, 110 million payment card numbers
were stolen from Target, but those numbers
were useless because the PIN codes were encrypted,
and the banks immediately canceled all the
compromised accounts.
Now Here’s the argument...
Cybersecurity is both worse and better than
it’s ever been.
The sheer size, scope, and frequency of attacks
from hackers is skyrocketing.
But the safeguards protecting individuals
and corporations are always being improved.
The massive 2014 hack of JP Morgan didn't
result in financial losses for its customers,
who were covered by consumer-protection laws.
But it did spur JPMorgan to build a vast cyber
security operation staffed with former military
officers.
And the U.S. eventually identified and indicted
the hackers.
However, keeping data secure requires constantly
updating technology, and expensive human monitors
watching for any sign of trouble.
High security comes with a high price tag.
