Hey YouTube World! It's me, Evelyn. An interesting
thing happened to me a couple weeks ago. I
was minding my own business, checking my email...
I got an email from Best Lace Wigs. They wanted
to see if I was interested in doing a wig
review.
Me. Who has never done a wig or weave review
in any of my 300 some odd videos on YouTube
- me - THAT me?!!?
So of course I said yes.
So this is the unit. The name of the wig is
nothing special. It's Indian Remy Bodywave
SW081.
The color is 1B. It's 20 inches long, under
the boob length. And the cap size is Medium/Large.
I'll put all that information in the video
description box below.
The problem is,
I don't actually know how to wear a lace front
wig. So...
Let's watch.
He doesn't like it. What does he know. I'm
fresher than youUUuuuu. Fresher than you -- OOP!
Okay, so this is the hair not combed out.
This is what it looks like on fresh out the
box, stop look and watch - ready yet, get
set, I'm all that!
This hairline is interesting. I don't know
how to cut the lace properly. I'm going to
watch YouTube videos and see how to do this
because... first of all, I'm more of a side
part girl anyway, so...
My mom asked me why they would send me a wig.
Mom: Yeah, why?
Um, wig update. Doesn't make sense, but um..
I have completely brushed it out. I look completely
different. So now it's like - kinda wavy.
And that's what I saw on the picture when
I requested the wig. It look like a wet and wavy look. 
So I'm going to make a proper review
of this wig, ha!!
Which leads us to present day. I've worn this
wig in public - in all seriousness - once.
Girl, I'm cuter than you! I'm cuter than you!
Doyin: No! No. No!
Oh my god, unfriendly black hotties, oh my
god!
Granted, I wore a beanie over it because [points
to scalp]
As a lace front novice, here is my review.
So I have four categories that I'm going to
review this wig under...through...what?
Number 1: PRICE.
As of right now, today, the day I'm filming
this wig, this unit is $106. 
Y'all really be out here doing this? I've
watched tons of wig and weave reviews and
I don't know if $106 is customary. I also
don't know what Remy means, and this is Remy.
It's human hair - I don't know where it's
from - and it is Remy. $106. 20 inches. Do
with that information what you will.
Category number 2: The Hairline.
Look at me. Can you see me?! Can you see me?
I'm new to this, you feel what I'm saying,
and I did cut the lace off, BUT, the only
way this can match my hairline is if I also
cut into the wig.
I'm one of those people who has a dippy hairline.
My hairline is actually underneath and to
the back. And I don't really know if you are
supposed to actually cut the wig, like, hair
would come out.
So I didn't, and uh, here we are today. Lookin'
like this. If I wore this with a snapback,
or like a "beantie" or something, it might
be fine.
It's also not very secure -- oop! It does
have combs. I don't know why this didn't click
before:
Oh yeah, people's edges get snatched because
they adhere the wig to their head in some
fashion. But not I, sayeth the Lord!
I'm sure some of you watching this, or some
of your favorite beauty gurus can make this
hairline work, but we're not talking about
your favorite beauty gurus, we're talking
about me. You wanted this, Best Lace Wigs.
You asked for me.
So this is whatchu gon' get.
Alright, so I talked about price, talked about
hairline, and now number three I'm talking
about Hair Texture.
W  hen I went on the Best Lace Wigs website
to select this wig, um, I was using pictures
as my guide. They had pictures on the mannequin,
and they also had pictures that looked like
they was taken from Instagram...?
But in retrospect, I should have chosen a
texture - I should have chosen Yaki.
Even with the freshest of Korean relaxers.
Of Dominican blowouts, this would never be
me. And it also makes it difficult because
I'm not about to be out here hot combing or
flat ironing my edges.
So that it can blend.
As for the curl pattern, I would say this
is a strong 2B. I call it my wet n' wavy look.
This hair texture is easy to detangle. Comparing
it though to my hair so, I feel like anything
would be easy to detangle.
It doesn't shed that much, see, I didn't,
there's nothing actually that I'm doing. It
does get clumpy and stringy as you can see.
It also does get frizzy up at the top. I've
never had to deal with like, flyaways, you
know what I'm saying, because my entire head
is a flyaway.
It's really annoying! Like I get you, Becky!
Like, I get it! These are really annoying,
these little wispity wisps!
We talked about price, hairline, hair texture,
and the fourth and final category that I'm
going to use to review this lace front wig
from Best Lace Wigs, um, is Hair Density.
I can actually see the netting or the cap.
Once it gets to the back and you know, the
hair starts to hang down, it feels thick,
but um, up here at the top...
You literally just have to glance at my head
and you can see the brown netting of the wig.
So overall, I had fun playing with this wig.
Ummmmm
I was actually amazed at just how much I was
feeling myself even with a jacked hairline,
even with a raggedy hairline.
I wasn't friends with Doyin anymore, you know
what I'm saying, no one could tell me anything,
you know what I'm saying, I'm magically Habesha
now.
So I can only imagine how out of this world
disrespectful I would be if I had a professionally
done situation on my head.
I am interested in wearing afro-ish type weaves and
wigs. If I could be a 3C, you know what I'm
saying, I would have no problems, you know
what I'm saying, I not gon' stop you you know
what I mean...
While I'm interested in the aesthetics um
that these sorts of options can provide, I'm
also not interested in making it happen for
myself.
So I might have to find like an Ursula Stephens
you know what I'm saying, or YouTube! 
If a Jouelzy, you know what I mean, peakmill, thomasadrianna..
If ChicNatural, if TheChicNatural could holla
and minister unto my scalp, I would have no
qualms! I would do it in a heartbeat!
Shout out to Best Lace Wigs for making this
video possible for your viewing pleasure.
Thank you Best Lace Wigs for stepping out
on faith because I don't know what you thought
this was gonna be, but here it is.
And thank you out there for watching.
In the comments below, tell me who your favorite
YouTuber beauty gurus who do wig and weave
reviews, tell me who your favorites are.
And hopefully I can turn the comments section
into a magical black girl lovefest showcase
resource um for anybody who clicked on this
video, and thought they was gon' get something
and got something else.
And I will see you on the internet somewhere.
Bye!
So the way I cleanse my hair, is I wet it.
And then I put shampoo in my hand, and then
I put it on my hair.
Blooper: You know I hate when people look
- are off to the side of the camera, so I'm going to do that.
[My little brother behind the camera busts
out laughing]
