Hey Youtube World! It's me, Evelyn. Time to
deck the gotdang halls - am I right??!!!
If you're looking for a fun DIY craft that
you can do this holiday, this Christmas season,
I've got just the thing for you.
*smirk*
Heaux Heaux Heaux.
*children booing*
DIY sharpie mugs are all over the Pinterest
internets. If you know Cajuns, you know that
"eaux" is the French version of the "o" sound.
Thibodeaux. Boudreaux. Comeaux. So I thought
"heaux heaux heaux" was a really cute thing
to put on a mug.
So to make your heaux heaux heaux holiday
sharpie mug, you will need a mug!
I would not go out to like, Target and buy
a $3 mug. I would actually recommend you go
to some place like the dollar store and get
one of those cheap, 99 cent mugs.
The reason for this is because the glaze on
these cheapie mugs ensure that when you write
on it with a sharpie and then you bake it
in the oven, that it will stay.
If you get these high quality mugs with high
quality glazes, you run the risk of the sharpie
just coming off even if you use the correct
sharpie.
Speaking of which! You have to find oil-based
paint sharpies. These paint markers are able
to draw on metal, wood, pottery, rubber, glass,
plastic, stone.
They are expensive. Right here?!!? $20 bucks!
But hey - you can make like 75 sharpie mugs.
This is not yo 99 cent sharpie that's in your
backpack. And you just shake 'em up like this
to activate them.
They come with the instructions on the pen,
but yeah - make sure you get these oil based
paint sharpies.
You can always free-hand the words onto the
mug, but I bought some stencils. And this
really helped me to keep the letters as uniform
as possible. It is not perfect because at
the end of the day it is still hand drawn,
but I did have these stencils as a guide.
Alright, so the directions are pretty straightforward.
You just place a stencil onto the mug, and
using a color of your choice in the oil-based
pain sharpie, go ahead and stencil in the
letters.
If you mess up, like I do all the time, don't
worry - just get a q-tip or like, a little
paper towel and dip it in some rubbing alcohol
or some nail polish remover and just scrub
the mistake off the mug.
It should come off pretty easily. Do not preheat
your oven. Just place the mug into a cold
oven, then set it to 425 degrees Fahrenheit.
Let it bake for about 30 minutes, take it
out, and let it cool.
And den voila! You have a sharpie mug that's
perfect for your egg nogs, your spiked ciders,
your hot chocolates, younawwmsayin you're
chais. It's perfect, it's cozy, it's cute.
And it's all yours alright?!!!
If you have any questions, leave them in the
comments below. Tell me if you have a favorite
holiday beverage, and I'll see you on the
internet somewhere. Bye!
