Hey Youtube World! It's me, Evelyn. So many
people ask this question. Like everybody asks
me this question. A lot of you - a lot of
my subbies ask this question and - I get it
everywhere - A LOT. All my subbies... I get
this question a lot. It's like the most asked
question ever in life of me.
Evelyn - can you share your short, tapered
natural hair routine. Alright, so let's go
ahead and get into it. *awkward pause*
Although I must note, it is exactly the same
as my regular natural hair routine - just
less hair. Like nothing changes. Like nothing's
different. Like I just wash my hair. And I
like, twist it. And it's like the same thing--
So the way I cleanse my hair, is I wet it.
And then I put shampoo in my hand. And then
I put it on my hair. And then I scrub.
So I suds up! I rinse the shampoo out of my
hair, and then I go into the next step, which
So depending on how I'm feeling, I either
grab a thinner, runnier rinse out conditioner
or I get a thick deep conditioner. It's just
luck of the draw. I apply it to my hair and
I proceed to finger detangle.
I will link my finger detangling video in
the video description box.
Alright!
All I do, with that conditioner still in my
hair, I put on a shower cap, and then I put
on my heated Hair Therapy Wrap for about 30
minutes. And then I rinse!
After I've gently dried my hair with a t-shirt
instead of a fuzzy towel, I apply a leave-in
conditioner to my slightly damp hair. And
then, because I'm lazy, I twist it and go
to bed.
Also as part of my laziness, I'll wear snapbacks
the first couple days in the week. Then sometimes
in the middle of the week when I'm feeling
more like a human being. When I'm finally
ready to style my hair -- I do exactly the
same hairstyle that I've been doing since
2012.
I apply my styler and first twist the perimeter
layer of my hair. Then I twist the top. You
can either wind the twist up on itself - some
people call it a hanging bantu knot - or you
can actually use curlers, and wind your hair
around the curler. Either way, when you take
it down, for me it produces the same result
- a TWIST AND CURL.
I let it dry overnight, and then because I'm
lazy and I never wake up early enough to do
my hair, I go to work with that same headscarf
and take down my twists in the office bathroom.
I just grab whatever oil or serum is in the
ladies' bathroom. Drizzle it on my hands,
fluff, and VOILA!
*awkward poses in silence*
Hope that answers any questions. My hair routine
has not changed. I just -- *sighs*.
Yeah, I don't really...ya know?! It's just
- it is what it is. In the comments below,
tell me how long you spend on your hair. And
I will see you on the internet somewhere - BYE!
