Alright, so! Hey Youtube World - it's me,
Evelyn. I cut my hair off. There's nothing
there. There's -- LENGTH CHECK! - there's
nothing there. And I will show you how I did
it. Not as a tutorial, but just FYI. Because
if you come out looking like an ostrich, that's
not my fault!. Don't email me, don't tweet
me, don't snapchat me, don't nothing. Okay?
Here's Evelyn from the past to give you a
warning yet again in case you didn't get it
the first time.
Evelyn From The Past: If you come out bald
head, lookin' like an ostrich, that's not
my fault.
The first thing I did was I combed out my
hair. So you can grab a moisturizer, a leave-in
conditioner, and your favorite detangling
tool.
Coily, kinky, nappy hair, whatever you want
to call it. It's like shrubbery. It's like
horticulture - what is it called?!! - Where
you trim the bushes? Like an art form? Something.
You want it to be like that, so you have to
comb out your hair so that you can see everything
and you know where to cut.
And here is Evelyn From The Past again to
tell you how to part your hair...maybe...if
you want to give this a try. But don't take
my word for it I'm serious.
Evelyn From The Past: Okay, the first thing
I'm going to do since I'm going for a tapered
look because I don't want to look like an
ostrich. I'm going to section off the top.
The way you section off the top is you make
a horse shoe shape. Or, a "U". Right here
where my hairline kind of dips backs is where
I started the part as you can see. But hopefully
you can.
*sings* I have decided to follow Jesus. No
turning back, no turning back.
After that first cut. After that first snip,
there's no turning back, YouTube. You've made
it a choice to be baldhead somewhat.
So in the beginning I parted my hair in one
like, sumo wrestler type bun, but here I'm
going to actually part my hair a second time.
And cut that one, as you can see, a little
bit longer than this section.
And then after that, all that's left is to
trim the top!
Ta-da! I'm going to go to the barber and get
the back shaved down a little bit. 
Just a little more edgy, I just need a little more edge. 
This was my hair before... and this is my hair now.
Do I look grown? Got these glasses just for effect. Am I grown now?!! 
So in the comments below, let me know if you had any New Year's Resolutions that relate to your appearance and altering it in some way. 
And have you done it yet? If not, you need to get on it. We have less than 100 days left I think in 2014. Get on it! And git 'er done.
See you on the internet somewhere, bye!!!! 
 
