- You really embrace this idea of right place, right time. Do you ever wonder what things would've been like if you had ended up in a different dorm? - I mean, suffice it to say, my life would be very, very different. When I think about counterfactuals, well what if I had been in a different place or at a different time, there's no doubt my life would've taken a very different route and I could very well just be one of the 99% who's working hard and not able to make ends meet. Mark Zuckerberg and I went on a walk a couple months after we'd taken, excuse me, after Facebook had launched and we had an equity conversation. I came out of the gate saying, you know I want 10% of the company. - It was a rainy day right? - It was a rainy night, it was a horrible way to have the conversation. He was stressed, I was stressed. It was not the best setup and I made the case for 10%. He said, I don't think you've earned that much. I caved pretty fast, and in the book I say, it was at once a spectacular failure of negotiation and also the most successful conversation of my life, because that 2% of Facebook ended up being worth nearly half a billion dollars a decade later. What seemed like passing conversations in the rain in college, can have these outsized effects. And that's a new phenomenon. Never before in history have twenty somethings been able to create these companies. I mean, Facebook is now work 500 billion dollars. - At what point did you realize the weight of that conversation, on the impact on your life? - You know there was never one particular moment afterward. Facebook just kept growing and in some sense the goalpost kept moving. You know when we had 6,000 people at Harvard on it, we're like, well this is amazing. We have to open it up to other schools and see if they're interested. And then people from those schools flooded in and over time we went from college students to everyone, general population, later international. And there was a moment, I guess a couple years, in 2006, Yahoo offered us a billion dollars. It was a lot of money at a very young age and the question at the time was, do we take this or do we not? And Mark and the board made the decision not to. If you had asked me two years before that, we were offered a billion dollars for Facebook. Clearly that's the definition of success, there's no question that that would've been a good decision. But you know Mark made the right call and the goalpost moved yet again. There were just a series of moments when it just got bigger and bigger and bigger, and it continually reset my expectations and, I think our collective expectations. (calm music)
