So you're probably wondering violet why do you have two glasses on like this
I don't know, anyhow so before I start the vlog off
I've laid out three outfits, and I want to show you guys how I paired these three outfits with my favorite Chuck Taylors. Oh
Yes queen! So these are some outfits that I'm laying out for the week and as you can see here they're all gorgeous
And right here, I plan on wearing this one to brunch
And put this with some red sunglasses and of course
Thank you my red chocks, and you can either do a high-tie a low tie
but these I don't know what I'm gonna wear yet, maybe the low tops or maybe the
Maybe the high tops whoo
Yeah
so second as you know I travel a lot I go to the airport and I'm always like moving around the like always the
things in the works
So I put some sweat pants with a body suit like a super comfortable outfit of course my black and red chucks
Obviously as you can see they match very well, and then black and red sunglasses as well
Hello I can't take myself seriously in these
Enough goofiness I'm onto the third outfit so these converse I customized myself as you can see and they're very cute
They have the black stripes on the side, and they have the pearls in the back
And I thought they would go really well with the red plaid pants and the red plaid shirt and of course
I paired them with these black glasses, and it's really good for the casual day
Just like a day running around la shopping or like whatever you want to do that day
You know take the dogs for a walk
And then as you can see this is the last outfit that I have and I wore today with my red high-tops and these go
With everything I'm wearing because I have a red top. I have the red stripe at the side, and it also I could pair these
With these
What's wrong with me. This outfit is great for like you know going out or going to dinner friends or even a lounging outfit
It's super comfortable you guys know me so comment down below
Which one's your favourite 1 2 3 or 4?
And you know let me know what you're feeling and what's really cool about converse is
There's so many types of styles or so many types of colors
You can get high tops, you can get low tops
anything that you're feeling and you just mix and match outfits together and just like see whatever you're feeling for the day for example my
Favorite right now are the Chuck red high tops and I wear them all the time everything forever Chuck forever you
So without further ado, let's get into the vlog. right? yeah
I'm not Ricky
We're good views. I didn't know our shooting with Ricky today. Oh my god
What's my intro again um?
What's up party?
Hey guys. It's me
What's up guys, it's finally here back at it again. Did I steal it from you?
Okay, I share oh
Yeah, so we're here in downtown. LA you guys are nowhere
That's out is that downtown island, and what are we doing today Chantal for doing a converse campaign?
And we are gonna be shooting all day. We're gonna be doing some video shoots
We're gonna be blogging cuz God knows you guys want a stinking vlog. I don't know Alyssa. Where's the vlog it's right here, okay?
Yeah, I don't want to bore you guys with talking, so let's get right into the studio and start shooting
You gave me a little
All right, so this is the first look I'll give you guys a full head-to-toe
Yes Queen work
All right, so I'm here at the gorgeous embellishment bar for the DIY
Convert and we are gonna be making our own converse for those of you who don't know what DIY stands for that means do-it-yourself
Yes, do we have a bunch we have a bunch of?
Bar calls and my favorite girls, and I already started working on some of these
I'm just gonna match this stick outfit got to match this chick out with some six shoes of course
Converse are amazing and they go with everything so cute you started
No, this is my shot it's my son no
I think may need some help because I'm so more interview, and I thought I can help you oh, yeah
I don't really trust you this
I mean you're probably right okay?
I'm trying to match these when they out there right now
And then see I talk like right and the white the red white red white so this red light here
And they're going to do
I
Can't I'm done
Santa's little tired. I'm so tired and but you look hot though whoa
So now we're gonna do a quick little interview, and you guys know me
I'm not good at interview the show when you guys see this when it comes out I
Did my best you know, it's what you can do your best. Yes. Oh she touched my booty nice
So do you come here often actually live here welcome smile oh nice
I can't wait to have my merge so I can just like
Shop every fest it always plenty of someone's calling laughs
Mom
Are you nervous
Black or white okay?
I know it
Come here, that's a wrap jibun. Oh, yeah, I had so much
No no no no copyright music chill chill chill
so I just got home and my
Babies are so excited to see me. Hi chickie bumms. You haven't seen me all day. What have you been doing?
That's cool. So today was a fun day right am I right. Yeah. It was fun. I'm just so exhausted
You know getting stuff done feels really good. I'm not gonna lie I feel accomplished I feel
Happy I'm gonna take all this makeup off because this isn't mean you guys know me, I don't wear a lot of makeup
I barely even wear makeup. I'm a little boy. Good morning people
I don't know. What today is Monday sometime in November. I don't have my phone but
I'm giddy today. I don't know why
I'm feeding the dogs right now
And I have to show you guys how I feed Paris because he's still a puppy and sometimes you won't eat
It's the cutest thing Freddie Terra Paris Paris
Look how he runs after it so cute
pretty oh awwww
If you guys don't already follow these doggies it's @OurBulldogs always plug high-five good girllll
So you guys are probably wondering why I'm all dressed up
I'm gonna go to lunch right now Chantal cuz I haven't seen her in like a day
Uh-huh I miss her and then I have a meeting right after that so you guys are coming with me
Forgot the red lips the red bag the black and white dress and of course the red converse that complete every look and go with
Everything so it's perfect
I haven't done red lips in forever
Bye baby, love you
