I'm growing up I'm moving on
be there in a little bit
yeah alright
everybody make some noise
Good morning party people it's about like 7 or 8 o'clock
I don't know cuz I'm not wearing a watch hahaha
Violet here back at it again
Today we have a really special day, and I'm really excited, and I just woke up and holy crap
I LOOK LIKE SHIT:)
But before I get into the day. I'm gonna take a really quick shower so uh oh
wow! How did I get here so fast?
hahaha
Basically what you see what happened was..
I'm moving!! Surprise!!
I think a lot of you already knew that I've basically been spending so much time here at my boyfriend, Ricky banks FaZe banks
WHUT?
His house for like the past two months since I've met him so I was like
Might as well juss move in ;)  also I think Sommer's 21st birthday party pool party is happening today
SO
It's gonna be a pretty eventful day to say the least
it looks like I'm naked too with the camera like this
This is the fit for the day
I'm bored. Can we just go to my apartment now? Let's go!
So I'm all sweaty, and hot and bothered
This is a first-hand look at my apartment that I was only in for like a month and we stayed here for a month
But I've had it since like April and it's now
August?
September? I don't even  know
It's really pretty, but F*** this place.
This is the kitchen
It's all messy. I haven't been here to do dishes.
This is the view
This is ma fridge
These are the ugly-ass floors
The mirror and the glass table and the view
the Hollywood sign
I'm moving somewhere in this area
I'm not telling you guys where
My little couch
bathroom!
bedroom slash closet
Actual bedroom
Neels and Cindy left this place kind of messy, thanks guys shout out to you
Mirror
Mirror
My cute messy gross little bathroom
ow I'm gonna miss this bathroom..
+sobs* I might need a minute
AWE.. All my little thingies just keep uploading this is it
BEAUTY EQUALS CONFIDENCE
I'm such a loser the other view downtown's over there
Oh my closet
This apartment is actually SO adorable
I'm so upset that I haven't spent more time here
But I mean the place that we're going to,  a little bit of an upgrade
My first appartment!
PEACE OUT
I'm growing up I'm moving on
I'm going to a better place
Life goes on
Jumping jacks
WHAT'S WRONG WITH ME?
-MOM
-WHAT?
-I'm so overwhelmed
Yeah
I have like dirty dishes that I never cleaned up and like
Garbage all.. like I don't even know what to do at this point about to freak out.
This is so annoying
-It's annoying? It's life!
Look who came to help! Hi guys :P
You just came to vlog you're gonna leave okay bye guys. Thanks for the help
ALRIGHT BOYS
Let's get to it
these flowers represent my life right now
Right so it's a really hot day in Los Angeles, and I'm sweating my tits off so
Oh my god
You know it's a funny story how I got the scooter. I bought it!
*snake hissing*
So boyfriend bought me a bagel
*jhbrjhsbsf boyfriend?*
-sorry:)
Right alright, so thanks for the coffee guys and for the moral support
(snake hissing)
Yeah...I mean yeah
NO, NO
Comment below who you think should get the scooter
NO! Let go of it
Okay, so you guys go party your tits up, and I'll be there in a little bit yep
All right, so my "friend" my "best friend" and my "boyfriend"
Just "left me" to go to a "party"
but I mean everything pretty much packed up except for the kitchen
I'm just so over it. I jus wanna chill out by the pool
Oh god I'm so sad
Oh
Low-key though these movers are so pissed
because they came here and like nothing was packed up so like they had to like
Throw all this shit in like boxes
I feel really bad
Oh, this is so sad
Fun fact I actually added this there's a mirror behind  oh, my god that just felt
That that's awkward I don't knhum
How did that get in there?
Look who showed up this bitch
CHANTY: Came here for moral support
right? unlike my other friends wait look how cute she looks though. Oh
And she came here with her gucci
This is so cute
Awee
I don't know how to salsa
Salsa dancing for beginners
and then
me*YAS QUEENS*
OKAY! and the we spin around
Oh yeah spin
No you have to
This is almost
My god, this is so sad
Are you gonna miss this apartment?
Okay cool. Thanks. Bye oh
My god, I can't believe I've only been here for like three months four months
Little shower I
Only got one thing to say pee stuff ran out. Oh the movers. Just left. Oh my god the echo
Usually when you go oh I'm trying so hard not to get emotional, but like damn
I got I like to see you, so I guess I'll start by saying that I love you
But you know this thing ain't been no walk in the park
So we stopped for a little smoothie trip. Oh my god, oh
My god, my dog's cuter follow rat our dog, London, huh?
But we're trying to direct traffic right now because there's a huge s party happening hi, I got my moving truck
We got more trucks. We got some random ass girl vlogging over there. Oh, yeah
Yeah
Was that yep, bring it back bring it back like that ass huh happy birthday summer
Oh
Shit long life, so there's all these people in my room right now the movers are in the middle
Yeah, I told them to put everything just in here Oh
Life I feel so bad
This is all happening during summer party, but you know what I'm just like happy birthday summer and happy moving to me
Can I get a whole yes?
How did you see that? That's funny?
Yes, thank you, so current situation the movers are moving everything in while there's a party still going on upstairs
And it's like 8 o'clock at night, baby. It's past to break out on the bed. Just guys moving everything in hello, sir
How you doing? Hell yeah, baby, baby, your girlfriend's moving in wake up
All right good talk babe. I Rick you good with moving the couch outside
Good with swapping them out with my couches
Good all right good. Talk. Yeah. We're good the communication between our Ricki, and I is really good. It's not right, baby
Yeah, so I trapped out of London in the closet over there for a couple hours
Just so they can move in and I'm pretty sure she hates me. He's gonna give her some water. Oh
Shit I'm spilling it everywhere
That's Talent hi, baby
Six-six, I got you water bubs because I love you
And I didn't just abandon you thank God you go with this baby. One more time you good
All right this better not be a problem tomorrow when he wakes up when I walk into with my closet. Thank you guys
Home baby, it's like a little puddle, baby
So bad
So it is like eight or nine o'clock. I don't know no I'm not wearing the watch all the movers finally moved in everything
Look at my car
My little table everything's in here look at the bathrooms. Oh God
everything is destroyed and the
Closet is still leaking I don't know why it's never done this before and I've lived here for two months
But today I decided to move in it decides to do this so that's dope cool. Thanks
My baby is eating her dinner and my other baby is passed out. I love you
All right, thanks
Love you, too, so I'm gonna end this on a positive note finally moved in how to order post mates for me and bubs
I'm gonna pass out. I'm gonna watch a movie. Yeah, today's been a good day ain't that right, babe?
Hell yeah, I thought so here we are a Saturday night it is
Midnight oh one. Everyone's like so Lissa. What's your idea of a perfect Saturday night?
This is probably the best where the best nights of my life. I got my baby unconscious, please Felix to me
I'm watching Gossip Girl. I got some of that pizza with some ranch sauce and my widow, baby
I just moved in don't you dare eat that pizza. I'm watching you for all you pizza lovers
This is gonna piss you off. Don't even look at that London London
Good girl don't eat the pizza, baby. Let me watch my Gossip Girl. I'm a really simple girl
I don't need all the money in the world. I don't need Lamborghinis. I don't need views. I don't need subscribers
I really don't I don't care. I'm sorry
I'm sorry, but I don't know but what you really do need in life is people that love you surround yourself with people
Love you, and do things that make you happy for example Gossip Girl pizza, and I love my boyfriend
He's gonna kill me like I put it in the blog. I know you're trying to eat that London
I'm watching you don't think I'm not watching you learn to put - oh look. How cute she is hi monkey
Hey, how can you not love this puppy?
Hi
I'm sorry. I'm just I'm so in love with my boyfriend. I can't again. I'm so happy or not good
I've honestly genuinely never been this happy about a little hot. This is getting weird. I gotta go bye
