Good morning violators
Not only good. Good morning violators
Do you feel that no no I don't know I'm testing out names for you guys good morning ultraviolet Squad
Yeah, you feel that I don't know comment down below what you think it's what do you think I should name you guy
Why is it raining? I moved to LA so it will be like nice and sunny all the time. But what's this?
This is not what I signed up for
Ooohh.. I got some coffee
And I got my eggies and my oatmeal
Today's gonna be a good day huh, Ricky? It's gonna be a good day. Hi hey
Are we matching? Maybe. Okay
No one invited you go home. I thought you told Ryan that he wasn't allowed to come
Baby do you want a ladyandtramp the bacon?
Wolfie tried to get out of paying and the guy
Well it stopped raining a little bit, but it's still raining, I'm about to cross the street
Kids don't do this. I'm a bad role model. I'm sorry parents. I gotta go
I gotta go
ARGHHH
Well, this is awkward for everyone
So
me and my boyfriend and rice and
Keemstar are all going to the party for... wait. What is it? It's your party. It's not, it's your party
It's your f*cking party
Every night says which is crazy because we didn't even try that all right
We didn't try that hard took a couple of days it took like two days to make and it's just great. That's it man
Hey, that's what happens if you have two
Amazing minds working together. They're so humble
That's what happens, then there's people out there that write music and make music and their whole lives
And they never get to see you two rats
And they can't get no plants and your boy is yes applause so we just got to the party and uses here to greet us
Yo, yo yo I like your chain, bro. You look sexual okay?
Rise I like your Flynn all thank you. I like your receiver sir. Thank you see through
I have a boyfriend though
so don't look too long so when we film this every night sis the studio that we filmed it and burned down after cuz the
Song was to fire and now we arrived to the party what's happening use it so a lady got stuck in an elevator
And then the fire department had to come and not only was the fire department here
But it was the same firemen that put the fire out. No it was the same people
Damn, that's crazy
secret city
Right Alyssa, I love platinum plaques apparently are here. I guess we're about to find out
Oh my god. Oh my god. We took that picture with an iPhone
Roseanne Tellez of Iowa, oh my gosh guys we made it kind of
Dancer
To the studio
All right, so I've just been looking for my camera for about like 25 minutes
And I'm out of breath because I'm sweating that's my boyfriend and that's Mitchell
Mitchell show me your face. That's my son
I mean Rickey had a son about a year ago, and we had any choice Wow I'm the Godfather it wasn't here
It was like eight and you're forty nine
Oh seven and a half years, I finally found my camera, and I'm so
Congratulations, baby, thank you so much. I've been timing and I was right what that means yes in six months
I'm a little bit wait
What would I see oh I had to pee hold on no
so I was always saying I'm so excited to meet everyone like there's so many youtubers here and like I just
Kick its this
Was here now you guessed it, it's me, it's Chantal. It's CJ the DJ
No, I had this wonderful idea to take
Shante here with me to look at apartments for my brother. You're looking really sexy in this dress damn girl. Thank you
I don't have a boyfriend
Never mind
Meetings day - how do you feel shit feel great really? I'm proud of you for waking up on two hours of sleep
Thanks me too. Mmm. No no violet. How are you back at it again? Oh, yeah?
Oh my god. Wait do I have these they're brand new?
I love these
Had the top hell yeah, she's Louise Ricky's gonna. Love me in these
So I love going to meetings if should be all my stuff I'm so blessed it's insane where's the car?
I'm out of breath. Will you carry me too?
Do you ever feel like a plastic bag drifting through the wind sorry I got distracted
I'm taking peepee and poopoo to go to the vet to get
Consultative to get fixed, and I don't want to but I have to all right
Let's go all right kids no pee pees and no poopies in this car okay
I will disown you got that p2 five-minute car ride you can hold it till then we're gonna be such a good mom one day
The consultation went well they stuck some stuff up their butthole when the Moody ha ha ha ha ah
You just did it ha London ha?
Okay guys, so alyssa is inside right now with
London she's getting like her ears clean, but yo Paris is freaking out outside right now. Yo yo yo
Yo, hey, okay, okay? Okay? Simply he literally cannot be around other dogs, otherwise you morons watch. This is this first target
Why are you crying I
Don't know this Vicki bro. Well. That was a success. Thank God you guys are gonna get your nuts cut off and your
What do they even do - girl dogs your tubes tied you know I hate thinking about it
Nobody knows your dish Oh
