Hey, guys, uh you might be wondering, why i'm holding this balloon it's because It's VALENTINES DAY
That's my, boyfriend and if you guys are wondering if i got her   that balloon?
No i didnt
also you might be wondering, why i'm orange and blotchy it's because i used self tanner last night
HEY HEY IM VLOGGING
In case, you're wondering in one whole year since i got london
he got london for his old girlfriend last year
No i didnt
so
We open, our doors today and there was - a little bit outside of her can you
There, was two bags outside of our door with two balloonies on the top and carrington got his present see to
Alice a happy v-day bit
Chilly, from carrington this is so cute she got his hot cheetos and she got us, some girl said can you open
This, and we have one hand and she got him, some chocolate the colca, dakis
And then there's like, flower petals in here she is so sweet
Alright let's go find kherington and say thank you puppies, do you want a car
thank you
Look, what she got us?
Thank you so much guys i did cus. I did help kids and custom make all of these so you lie
Wait to our cameras have sex
sex, oh
We're vegan now so we don't consume the dairy products
Babies are you hungry i still have to feed you it's like
11 o'clock and i stop to feed you come on looks like i have a mustache
But that's like kind of actually so orange i don't like, that so i just took a shower and i still have a mustache
Oh, my, god ricky i seriously have a mustache from this tanner look a
Little orange, what's that anywho ooh i got some orange, juice
i
Shouldn't record, every little thing, about, my dad honey was a blogger hear me, oh you
Honey i put on these bunny ears cuz i'm a little rabbit i want to show
You, guys, what i got in the mail cuz i'm so excited and
i've been working on my, style lately and
I ordered some stuff online and look a, bomb i got some g vaughan scoops i got
Some javon she slippers i got i got some, new
balenciaga
sunglasses, oh
That's nice i got, my, off-white, bag that i've been wanting, forever it's a
Cute look it's so cute i got a knock white belt because i'm trying to be like the cool kids and fit in it's so
Cute i got some she won't she slippers it's so cute and i got this black, bag very nice
You know what i also got?
i
Also decided to clean, my brushes today on this lovely long ballot valid, and flying shits lovely valens line
Damnit galantine you know, what i quit so i put my little mat here i've never, washed, my brushes before
I think you get it wet a little bit and then i have this brush cleaner i'm gonna be a. Makeup guru i
Think, you just get your brush a, little wet and there you go
This is cool it's like i'm thinking
I don't you can see all the, makeup that's been stuck on here i'm gonna throw. Up look all the makeup is oh?
yeah
I, feel, like i'm squeezing a blackhead, whitehead
yeah
So i went to sephora the other day and i got a, whole lot of new, makeup
And i'm really excited to use it off i got it a palette and i know their power and i got some stuff?
More stuff stuff and some more stuff yay, oh?
My, god i just love logging so much it's, my favorite thing to do
oh
I still have mustache and the beauty gurus
Are dyp, summer nip
So here's the final look i decided to go orangish, because it's valentine's day and it's pretty yellow, oh?
i think i should get ready, now cuz i'm gonna, die i
Just peed outfit on you get to my butt in the mirror
Hello, so we decided to do ricky's valentine's day, surprise another, day
So, me and chantal are gonna go shopping on rodeo
instead
Just got the rodale we're. Going to gucci, bag ice cream we got ice cream
Oh, you just call, me that thanks for waiting for me, while i shop for myself
No i'm not they're bringing up, my, bag right, now i'm a. Little fashionista, today yeah
Shante tell aleen, what's yours?
I'm tanika deep teen she met up with me
Honey so you're, gonna go shop. By yourself, yeah i'm gonna, go to the men's section
I'm making, baby hold, my bags thanks baby
Oh, no, would it hurt it left a mark on my arm
Thank you baby video, about it okay, wait so we were just in barney's
And this guy, walked up to music hey, what's up girl, and that no i wasn't with her
By, the way i was like wow chantelle left me and i was by myself for two seconds and this guy, was like?
What's up baby and i was like i'm not, baby he's like, what's your name and i'm like violet
And he's like i what are you going to, he, wouldn't let
Me get in the elevator and i was like i'm going to meet my boyfriend and then he's like
Does he treat you like the princess is your boyfriend treating like, the princess you are and i was like double that, ass though
Chantelle made me vegan so now i'm gonna, make ricky vegan british to vegan bitches
Do you, like it
I got it i got a. Chatty latte to go but yeah i forgot how, to vlog on the film
Awkward i apologized i don't really care so bye
Oh, mike hothead, oh?
Mike hot work but shit but. You're just too cute. By drinking you like it's like
Good morning, boogie-oogie-oogie what, oh, by the way i have to come up with the name for you. Guys
Like should i call you guys the violent
Army, that's what you guys like or?
Elissa army or like the violet ears or like i don't know
I need, to come up with something now so can
You, guys, help, me with that comment in the comment section what you guys should be called but, yeah it's now, day
Seven of the vlog i don't know i lost count anyway so i got food, whoa
I don't know, why i got three waffles i think i've messed up i figured now is a good time to explain
Where i've been but i think you guys already know. Cuz. You follow, my snapchats and stuff i just haven't felt comfortable
With my, body lately
And by lately i mean the past like six months
I gained weight about 20 pounds to be exact and all went to my, boobies and my butt and my
Thighs, and my arms and my face got really, like full you guys
Can't tell but i know i'm like i'm so fat but like i don't think i'm back but
Definitely, not just like comfortable being on camera or whatever but, i wish to point in my, life, where i was like you know
what forget and
I realized, women are beautiful and any shape or size and as long as they're
Happy, with themselves then, yeah, also i've just been building. Cloud king which is like our company and it's just like our squad
whole lot of cloud shit but i started working out, again, last week and i feel really good i
feel like i feel um
Good you know, feel like i'm getting
Back into it back into the swing of things here's to put it in this perspective a little bit
My, jean, size always used to be a 27. And these are 29
And they fit me and they're and i got a big booty now
i
Got a big booty so i call a big booty, wanna see my outfit
we we back in
Look, i'm a little we we bad gift, someone's like you know french and i'm like oui oui baguette get it cuz
They, used to work at panera not yet he's not getting this seat, wait so alex is sitting and shadi
And ricki's coming out so we're about to witness him freak out
Oh, he's gonna be pissed for sure it's like, oh six five i needed the leg
Holy, shit he might have seen, me i'm gonna just hold my ground first of all
Until he rips, me out the car
What's up? Yeah, what's up?
son locks come on i called it i called it you could call it ricky i
Can't believe you actually gave me a shotgun that's a really nice guy, you're a scumbag come on i want to fight
I've made a pretty big hookup here and look at, where she put the car, what are you doing
So listener doesn't know. How. To drive and we ended up alissa led, us to the - this wrong, way
Your, vlog i'm a hop on the back alright
Let's do it we're? Good at let's back it up hey, oh?
My, god yo if we go off a
Cliff i'm so dorky polson look at the klaus
Is way over there look at the focus and the determination on her face to keep us all alive
Why i'm on top of the vehicle
Alissa as you can see it clearly says vehicles prohibited do not enter so what the fuck was going on there
it's like this is live right, oh my god
I'm holding on i got a good grip
Into this driveway and then, we can, go out straight lit, lit all right
Cause it's just so cute when, me and ricky have a, baby this is gonna be the type of house that
We get and it hasn't you i'm not talking, about that i'm talking about me
okay, number between number between 1 and 100 ready 1 2 3 68
He's mine so don't don't look at him
I am going to meet niels right now for lunch i thought that'd be a
Good, way to wrap up the vlog hi neely's yeah, what's up how are you i'm very, well thanks for coffee very, well
You, want a link later lincoln bill you want a lincoln sit in the sink and eat some meat
Yo he says the link he's always such a loser and you'll listen what time you, want to link today you mean hey
I'm just kidding i love you, oh, my, god i'm such a cam whore
What you packing young?
