Before we jump into the next clip, I just wanna tell you real quick
We got a new audio network
Go to TYT.com/audio
and get all of our new podcasts.
A new bombshell report in the Miami Herald details how a police chief in a small town, a small suburb
Biscayne Park
Is accused of telling his officers to arrest random black people in order to just boost stats.
And this is from one of the officers in the report.
Anthony de la Torre says they were told
And he's not the only officer
Four officers, which comes up to a third of the small force,
The police chief in question, Raimundo Atesiano,
denies all these allegations. He quit the force back in 2014.
But I wanna tell you this.
During his 2-year tenure, 29 of 30 burglary cases were solved
And the year after he left, the force didn't solve any. Not one.
The year after he left.
Because right-wingers are not that bright, I have to explain that
'Cause they're gonna think, "Oh you see that, it lead to more crime."
No! They hadn't solved any of the cases in the past. They were just pinning it on the wrong guys.
All these cops are saying it.
"Oh yeah, we're just arresting random black guys"
So when they stop doing that, it turns out they weren't solving any of the cases!
It also means there is a good possibility that any competent defense attorney
is gonna get every single person who was convicted during that time - off. Right?
And some of them did do it.
And some of them will have done it.
You'll then inevitably put some legitimate bad guys back on the street
because you guys are so friggin' incompetent and racist.
This police chief in question is actually in trouble with the feds.
for one specific case. They've only got one going right now.
But he's charged with framing a black teenager - a 16-year-old, I think.
for four different burglaries, even though federal prosecutors say they knew there was no evidence
to support any of these charges.
Whatever the maximum sentence is for four different burglaries
that's how long Chief - I don't remember his name already -  belongs in prison.
Atesiano
That's how long Chief Atesiano - but he deserves to spend the rest of his life in prison.
Yeah, it's stunning to me how little they care about other people.
Like, you're gonna put them in prison, you're gonna take away their liberty,
even though you know they didn't do it. Why?
'Cause it's gonna improve your career by this much.
You get to brag about how good you are at solving crime when you know you're not solving crime.
And think about that too, guys.
Not only are they putting away these people and taking away their freedom, ok?
But at the same time,
people get to do burglaries nonstop in that town
'cause you're not actually doing the police thing.
So people keep getting victimized, and then you have people who didn't commit the crime going to prison,
for, again, a crime they didn't commit.
And, look, remember, he specifically said to single out black people in the community.
So please spare me the arguments about how there's no institutional racism in the country
because this is a perfect example of it.
This was burglary. You think sometime in the last 30, to 40, to 50 years in this country, that's happened for murder?
and that maybe we have a couple of black guys - let alone white guys - on death row who didn't do it?
If you think that, you're out of your freakin' mind.
Twenty of them get out every year.
That's right.
Yeah, and so guys, if it didn't happen to you, doesn't mean that it doesn't happen.
So yes, unfortunately for a lot of African-Americans, this is their experience.
This is what they've lived in so many different areas for so long.
So, it doesn't mean you did it
This guy did it. He did it 'cause he's lazy
and he did it because he's a bad guy.
But it happens to a lot of black people in this country
So just recognize this so we can all fix it together.
Two easy ways to follow The Young Turks.
One is hit the subscribe button down below
then you're a TYT subscriber.
and second is, ring the bell. and when you do that on YouTube, you're notified of our videos.
