"“If you’re ever in our area,
please stop by and be a part of
one our services, I promise ya
we’ll make you feel right at home."”
This is Joel Osteen, a celebrity televangelist.
Every week Joel and his wife, Victoria,
preach the good word for good money...
their estimated net worth is $40 million to 
over 45,000 people in person, with millions
more watching his sermons on TV and online.
Joel is the lead pastor at Lakewood
Church, which is actually one of the biggest
in the entire country.
Now Lakewood Church is located in Houston,
Texas...the epicenter of Hurricane Harvey.
The hurricane has ravaged the city of Houston, 
flooding homes and highways, and has already
claimed a suspected 30 lives.
Luckily though, Lakewood church
has not been damaged by the category 4
storm because it sits on higher ground.
As you can see:
“"You see this? This is Lakewood.
I’'m in the front of the church.
The church is higher than the goddamn
freeway. Do you see the freeway?
It’'s the freeway. You see.
That’s 59, the southwest freeway.
You see that car driving on it? It’s not closed."
So naturally many thought Joel and his wife,
VIctoria would welcome those who
had to evacuate their homes and
seek refuge, with open arms
"I promise ya we’ll make you feel
right at home"”
into the 16,000-seat arena that used to
be home to the Houston Rockets,
the basketball team that has
already donated $10 million to
the Harvey hurricane disaster relief fund.
"“We have to be good to people... see people
matter to god, people matter most to god."”
But apparently being good to people didn’t fit Joel
and Victoria’'s bottom line this year...
since they kept the doors to Lakewood
Church closed amidst this disaster.
Now many people have expressed their
outrage at the Osteens...who have claimed
that they didn'’t open their doors for those seeking
shelter because they were flooded themselves.
"The doors are locked but you see
these vehicles? This is for the
few people that’s inside of
here, that’s inside of here
because it’s safe in here. You
see this? Let me go, let me try
to get closer You see the
inside of that? It’s dry.
The upstairs area is right there.
It’s dry. You see that?”"
Whoopsie.
But to be honest, I don'’t really understand why
people are so mad at Joel.
This dude takes millions of dollars a
year from people who want to feel closer
to God and find solace in times of hardship.
Jesus said give to the poor,
this man takes from the poor.
And then has the audacity to say
he’'s speaking on behalf of god
when he says shit like this:
"“People send money, they buy the
product, or they support the ministry...
ya know just an unbelievable amount
that keeps it all going”."
Because as many of you know...
Jesus too was quite the purveyor of merch.
So the fact that Joel didn’t practice
what he preached when Houston
was in need shouldn'’t surprise or anger anyone...
this has been his shtick all along.
He uses his pulpit for profit.
Taking in the needy during times of
destitution? Not too profitable.
So the Lakewood Church doors
stayed shut so that Joel could
spend the time in his $10
million dollar home working on
his next book or special “walk
on water” skinny tea.
But like Joel so eloquently put it... “
"If you rely on people, you will be
disappointed. People will let you down.”"
Guess the writing was on the wall there...
Houston residents, Osteen parishioners,
and others with any semblance of
a moral compass alike, so
angered at the Pastor’s decision
to continue his money grubbing
ways, took to Twitter and other
news outlets to express their
dismay at Joel’s decision.
This bad press was no bueno for the
Osteen family’s bottom line...so
all of the sudden, the
“flooding” in the church was
fixed, air mattresses were
bought, and the church finally
opened their doors/…
Better late than never, I guess?
Since Joel’s “keep your doors shut to
the poor until you’'re publicly
shamed to open them” line might
not be inspirational enough for
you in this time of need, I
thought I’'d leave you guys with
one bible quote to really wrap this up:
Luke 16:19-25 says,
“"There was a rich man who was
dressed in purple and fine linen
and who feasted sumptuously every day.
And at his gate lay a poor man named Lazarus...
who longed to satisfy his hunger
with what fell from the rich man’s table...
The poor man died and was carried away by
the angels to be with Abraham.
The rich man also died and was buried.”"
Hey! Jesus’ words, not mine...
Well we all know you don’'t want to be like Joel...
so you can donate to the Red Cross
to actually help the victims of
Hurricane Harvey by texting
“HARVEY” to 90999 to donate $10
to the relief efforts.
You can also donate your time to
following me @HannahCranston
and as always, thanks for watching TYT!
