Earlier this week, The New York Times
uncovered a memo that features
Trump’s new very important agenda
item: tackling affirmative action
and taking legal action against schools
that apply it. Now I’ll be talking about
all the problems with affirmative action
today. But before we get to that,
let’s go back to Trump’s plea
to black people for a second:
“What do you have to lose, by trying
something new, like Trump?”
Turns out, if you vote for a dude who
dog whistled to white supremacists
throughout his campaign- you’re 
slated to lose at least some things.
Things like affirmative action are
now on the chopping block.
Except it’s crucial to recognize that
this is only going to affect the poor
and the marginalized- for the
wealthy, it doesn’t really matter
if you’re under-qualified, you just toss
the school a couple of million dollars
and your transcripts become just
a formality for admission to
top colleges and universities.
And let’s take a look at Kushman-
Jared Kushner- who got into Harvard
after his father selflessly gave
the school $2.5 million dollars.
Now this pay-to-play arrangement
at elite institutions is not exactly
a secret amongst the wealthy.
College endowments depend more
than ever on private donations,
since admitting low income geniuses
just doesn't really pay enough for
the Scrooge McDuckian deans to
live on. But even when wealthy
white people don’t legally bribe
their way into college, they still
have an unfair advantage.
Their fallback option is relying
on “legacy” admissions, which give
preferential status to applicants
with a family connection to the school.
But you might say I’m colorblind
and a legacy can be of any color, right?
Sure, except that it doesn’t and it wasn't
until the Brown vs Board of Education 
in 1954 that schools were mandated
to desegregate. And to top that off,
that decision was ignored until
a decade later when the Civil Rights
Act, that schools were actually forced
to integrate. Basically, “legacy admissions”
is code word for “Hey white people,
"you can go to white college because 
your white family went to white college.”
Now if it wasn't already obvious, 
legacy admissions is a system which
perpetuates itself based on prior
racial discrimination. And by prior,
I mean just recently in history,
as in: Trump and Jeff Sessions
were both still in school during segregation.
Obviously Sessions, never really left that era.
And now, Sessions with the help 
of Trump, is bringing back the good
ole’ days which includes some of 
worst policies for black people
in recent history.
“What do you have to lose?”
“Bye-bye.”
Jeff Beauregard Sessions III is one
of the worst things to happen to
black people since “Birth of a Nation.”
While “Birth of a Nation” made
the Klan seem cool and exacerbated
racial tensions, at least the film is more
than a hundred years old and no one
ever really watches it except for as
an example of how racist as fuck things
were back then, whereas Sessions,
the nation’s most powerful attorney, 
was deemed too racist to be a judge
in the eighties. In. The. Eighties.
The eighties were racist as fuck.
How racist do you have to be to
be called a racist in the 80s?
“I am not a racist!”
Jeffrey, the fact that you had to say this 
during a nomination hearing is already
problematic, but turns out all we had to do
to see how racist you are was just wait.
Since your appointment to Attorney General
and part-time White House lawn gnome,
you’ve tried everything in your goddamn
power, which is a lot of power, to dismantle
the progress we have made thus far
in civil rights. Your first act as
Attorney General was to reinstate taxpayer
funded corporate-owned prisons in
the US, even though many studies
show their lack of efficiency
and poor safety standards. Oh and also,
it’s inherently unethical and immoral
to make money off of incarcerating
people. But that controversial reversal
was probably to prep for the inevitable
increase in the number of incarcerated
since you then restarted
the failed war on drugs.
That’s-That’s pretty cool too.
You’re also advocating for letting
lawbreaking police off the hook,
while Trump simultaneously
promotes police violence.
“Like when you guys put somebody in
the car, and you’re protecting their head,
"you know? The way you put their hand. 
Like, don’t hit their head, and they’ve just
"killed somebody. Don’t hit their head.
I said you can take the hand away, okay?”
This is fucking insane. Guilty until
proven innocent, right? And you’ve
even made it harder for defendants
to prove their innocence because
you’ve cut back on forensic science, 
which has proven invaluable in
reversing wrongful convictions.
But we’re the one’s who are
being divisive, of course. These
are the reasons why we need
a leveled playing field. Look, let's
remember what affirmative action is.
It’s a policy favoring those who
tend to suffer from discrimination.
So it isn’t a bias that favors blacks,
Mexicans, women or even members
of the LGBT population. It just happens
that those are the communities that have
historically been discriminated against
in all aspects of life, including education.
If white people were the marginalized
group, they would be the beneficiaries
of affirmative action. The system 
isn’t perfect, but that doesn’t mean
it hasn’t helped. To equate affirmative
action with clear cut racial discrimination
is not only categorically false- it's
also an effort to deny the repressive,
and often violent history of oppression
African-Americans have historically faced-
and continue to face today.
I’m Hasan Piker, please share this video
with your friends, if you think marginalized
communities deserve a level playing
field. Please don’t forget to follow me
on Instagram @hasandpiker and
on Twitter @hasanthehun.
And this has been the breakdown.
