Hi friends,
How many days do you have left?
Say there was a ticking clock on your life
where at the end of it, you could lose your
driver’s license, your job, your enrollment
in school, your home, your family.
All of it goes away when the clock hits zero.
How many days would you have left.
400?
100?
30?
None?
For some of you watching this, for DACA recipients,
this isn’t an imaginary scenario.
This is your life.
For the rest of you, listen up.
Immigrant youth in the United States are part
of our communities and part of our country,
and right now they’re under attack.
Undocumented youth used to be able to apply
for a program called DACA , or deferred action
for childhood arrivals, to be able to legally
work and go to school and a whole bunch of
other things in the US. but since the current
administration put an end to the program,
hundreds of immigrant youth, hundreds of dreamers
are losing their legal protection every day.
Their lives as they know them, are on that
ticking clock.
And there’s only one way we can stop it
from running out.
So that’s why this Project for Awesome,
I’m supporting United We Dream.
United We Dream is The largest organization
fighting to protect immigrant rights, led
by immigrant youth.
One of them, Adrian Reyna, talked to me about
what they do.
And it is immigrant youth like me who are
working to achieve justice for immigrant communities
all over the country.
These are people that you work with, people
that you go to school with, These are people
who have been here most of their lives.
We are undocumented.
And right now we’re fighting to pass the
dream act, which would be a piece of legislation
in the US Congress that would allow undocumented
immigrants who were impacted by the decision
of the termination of the DACA program to
be able to have a pathway to citizenship.
The Dream Act would provide a path to citizenship
to the 800,000 immigrant young people who
are losing their DACA protections every day.
And by the way, United We Dream led the campaign
that helped get DACA in the first place.
So they’ve been at the forefront of this
fight for immigrant rights for a long time.
But we’re at a critical moment for this
fight because the Dream Act has broad, bipartisan
support recent polls show that 76% of americans
are in favor of the Dream Act, and the bill
has Republican and Democratic co-sponsors
in both the house and senate.
It just needs a vote.
And it needs a vote by the end of the year.
And it is urgent that we get this passed by
the end of the year because so many people
have fallen out of status.
Already over 11,000 people have lost protections
and are now at risk of deportation.
And every day that passes without it passing
122 people lose protection, and are put at
risk of deportation.
United We Dream has worked to get DACA, they’ve
worked to provide education access for immigrants,
they’ve worked to protect LGBTQ+ immigrants,
and now they’re working to get Dream in
just the same way.
They assemble a diverse group of leaders,
with immigrant youth at the forefront.
And they put their voices and their bodies
on the line.
I want you to understand that for undocumented
youth, this is extremely dangerous work.
Dreamers are risking arrest risking their
status trying to be heard.
Trying to ask their representatives to see
them and treat them as human beings.
So we need to stand with them.
Here’s how.
Right now we all know that right now there’s
a lot of hate going on, right?
Like a lot of people are talking about how
immigrants are bad for America, and I think
that this is the time where we need to articulate
a vision of justice.
Really be vocal about why we need the Dream
Act to pass this year.
You can go to www.weareheretostay.org.
There’s a sample script that you can use
to call your representatives and your senators
urging them to get the Dream Act passed before
the end of the year.
If you are a citizen, a permanent resident,
or whatever immigration status you’re on,
this is our fight together.
Dreamers need our support Now.
Like I cannot stress that enough.
Now.
Before the end of the year.
And they’re going to need our support after
that too, because xenophobia won’t go away
with just one bill.
So, if you want to help fund United We Dream’s
work, go donate at the Project For Awesome
IndieGoGo and click the link in the description
to vote for this video, and for United We
Dream to get a cut of those donations.
And if you’re in the US, Call your representatives
and tell them to pass a clean Dream Act in
2017.
Immigrants are people, they are part of us.
Let’s make sure they are safe and welcome
in our shared home.
Thanks, and happy Project For Awesome!
*claps*
