I gained momentary notoriety in my high school
when junior year, I started drawing little
toast characters on the whiteboard in my physics
class.
First extreme toast, and then ghost toast,
and then other people joined in adding more
and more ridiculous toast puns.
Pope toast and toast busters and a toastage
stamp.
And some other ones that now that its not
2008 and we all woke I realize are kinda offensive.
But the teacher ran out of space on that board.
And he put up another board.
Which we also covered in toast.
For a brief couple of weeks, I was the toast
girl.
The one who started the toast.
Where, usually doodles are confined to private
marginalia in notebooks we hope no one else
will read, my little toasts became a public
display of identity.
What kind of person is the girl who started
the toast.
What does that tell people about me?
After my brush with greatness my doodles retreated
back into smaller, less visible spaces.
My copies of The Odyssey and Huckleberry fin
are dotted with lightning bolts and tiny cartoon
dinosaurs
Then I started drawing concentric circles
on the edges of my notebooks because of an
album cover that I liked when I was 14 and
I never quite stopped.
But peak doodle were the notebooks I carried
through my last semester of college where
every page had an elaborate header in a hand
drawn font: Northanger Abbey or Brazilian
Englishes, each day a new invented lettering
sprawling across the top, my concentric circle
pattern cascading down the margins.
The actual notes I took only filled a couple
of lines.
I was already 1000% done with school and filling
space was a way to fill time.
Unlike my toast, I didn’t want anyone to
see these doodles..
I didn’t want them to know I wasn’t paying
attention.
But drawing circles inside of circles was
a way to keep me still.
When I was weeks away from graduation, everything
splintering out in every direction, I’d
revert to that pattern as a way to stay calm.
A way to keep me with myself—to make being
there bearable.
Now?
I mostly doodle sharks.
I drew one on the cover of a document I wrote
to train people at my old job once.
Echoes of toast, you know?
Taylor, she will show up and work hard and
do a good job but you will not crush that
weirdo out of her.
You won’t.
I love wondering about the doodles I come
across on other people’s pages.
Whether they exist to announce themselves,
to tell me how to read the person who was
writing there.
Or, like my circles inside circles inside
circles they create a sort of space for their
doodler to bear being alone.
Please tell me in the comments, what do you
doodle and why?
If you liked this video, you can consider
subscribing.
You can also find me on all my social medias
in the links below.
Tweet me your doodles, or tag me in them on
instagram!
And I’ll see you next week.
Bye!
