Agriculture has not really innovated materially in the past 10,000 years.
It’s an industry that it hasn’t really benefited from technology.
One thing that we want to do is to disrupt agriculture
in a way that can produce food that is both high-quality but also is affordable.
Over the next five years the middle class population of China is expected to top 550 million people.
And by 2025, there will be over 200 Chinese cities each with a population over 1 million.
That’s a lot of mouths to feed.
A Beijing start-up thinks it has a way to grow more food.
We started out by building a farm inside of a shipping container.
Part of the reason for that was that
they are mobile, they are modular and they are highly standardized.
And at any given time there is over 10 million idle containers in the world.
Alesca Life’s vertical farm in central Beijing
can produce up to 60 kilograms of vegetables a week with no soil.
It uses only recirculated water, a few LED lights and a monitoring app.
Here’s how it works -
seeds are placed in sponges and grow up to 17 days.
Then the plants are moved a few feet away to a nursery area
and finally into a finishing area where roots dangle in beds of fertilized water
until the produce is ready for harvest.
Because our container is climate-controlled
it allows us to do a full harvest 26 times a year.
And a typical farm can only rotate their land anywhere between four to six times.
And really the challenge is what can you grow profitably more than what can you grow.
The high costs to set up and run the farm
means Alaska Life sells its vegetables for about 13 times more than traditionally grown vegetables.
For now Alesca Life’s customers are mostly in the high-end restaurant business
who can afford to pay for reliability and high quality.
Restaurant manager Stefano Censi recently stopped at the container farm to check on the flavor of arugula-
a green that is hard to come by in China.
Yeah, It’s good.
It definitely has energy. It’s nice.
It really kicks in at the end.
A fifth of China’s farmland is mainly contaminated by heavy metals,
and Alesca Life is betting wealthier consumers will be demanding healthier food.
The Chinese government has been funding scientists like Professor Yang Qichang
to research vertical farming.
Container farms have popped up around the world
and Alesca Life has deals with countries in the middle east to test their technology in the desert.
Co-founder Stuart Oda thinks if his company can grow vegetables in the sand dunes
we might one day see farms in even harsher environments.
There’s enough challenges here on earth for us to be tackling at the moment,
but after we can solve some of those challenges
it’ll be nice to look into supporting food production in outer space.
