Warren Buffett isn't like most CEOs.
He runs one of the few true conglomerates
left in America -- Berkshire Hathaway.
Berkshire is a massive insurance company,
manufacturer, railroad operator, investor
and much more.
Buffett himself is worth about $74 billion,
which makes him the fourth-richest person
in the world.
Yet he lives in Omaha, Nebraska -- not some
fancy coastal mansion.
But one of the biggest things that sets Buffett
apart is that he doesn't always play by the
same rules as the other guys.
And nobody really questions him.
There is good reason for this.
Buffett has delivered a nearly 2 million percent
stock price gain since he took over Berkshire
50 years ago.
Plus he's got this folksy image that adds
to his aura of trustworthiness.
But Buffett turns 87 this year, and so lately
there's a lot of talk about what Berkshire
will be like without him.
You can count on one thing: The opaque culture
he's created is a luxury that won't be afforded
to Buffett's successor --
whether that's Greg Abel or Ajit Jain or some
other candidate.Many have been rumoted over
the years, but Abel and Jain are seen as Buffett's
two favorites right now.
Should he ever decide to step away though,
there will be the issue of transparency.
Berkshire Hathaway owns all these disparate
businesses,
but aside from the biggest ones
shareholders really only get a high-level
glimpse at their performance each quarter.
And forget the common practice of quarterly
earnings calls -- Buffett doesn't do those
It doesn't really bother investors now.
But they'll demand more from Buffett's replacement.
Another big issue will be Berkshire's pile
of cash.
It sits at about $260 billion, a figure that
continues to climb.
Buffett uses the money for acquisitions and
investments at his discretion, which produce
better returns than, say, paying a dividend.
In fact, Buffett is firmly against paying
a dividend.
But that could be one of the first changes
we see.
Berkshire may very well pay out some of its
cash to shareholders under the next CEO to
appease weary shareholders.
It could look like a very different company
in those respects, but that's not necessarily
a bad thing.
