I’m a certified broadcast meteorologist
I’m the only person in Phoenix that has that seal
I’m very scientific when it comes to everything.
Everything in life.
And, my hairsprays is one of them.
I have at least four different kinds.
I’m like thinking about the chemistry of
them and what they do
Should be okay
Oh we did?
92 right?
Oh geez, I’m going to come retweet you.
That’s ridiculous.
We hit 92°F (33°C). We tied the record.
92°F degrees, our first 90s of the year and
it was enough to tie the record that dates
all the way back to 1972, and old one for us, tied today
More records are in jeopardy
Abundant sunshine again tomorrow
About 16°F degrees above normal, 
so well ahead of schedule for that
You know you sit here and you forecast day
after day after day and you start noticing
This is weird
This is different
We are getting hotter and hotter
And now it’s just it’s too hot to ignore,
we can’t ignore these trends and pretend
they’re not happening.
Busting that previous record
Breaking that 2004 record
It’s about to get even hotter
By 2100, 76 days possible at 110°F (43°C) or hotter
each year. That’s over two months
For a lot of people, they can’t name one
scientist that they know personally, but they
know their local weather person.
Across the state temperatures unseasonably
warm everywhere you look...
I’m the only access to a scientist that
many of these people will ever get, because
I’m in their homes every night on their
television and they watch me
Historically Arizona has been a very red state.
I have been the only one, and my meteorologists
that I work with here on staff to present
climate stuff on the air.
There are no other stations in Phoenix that do it
Our normal high today: 76 degrees
Well, we’re doing better than that.
We'll see 88 today but the 90s come in to stay starting tomorrow
I love it.
When I first started doing this, I said the
words “climate change” a lot.
I was really gung-ho about it
I’m gonna talk about climate change
I’m gonna say climate change
I don’t care if they don’t like it, I’m
gonna, basically, hit them with the truth!
Today the American Meterological Society sent a letter to the  Scott Pruitt
saying he’s wrong to think that carbon dioxide
is not the main cause of global warming.
The letter said in reality the world’s seven
billion people are causing climate to change
and our emissions of carbon dioxide...
Might get some emails on that one.
I do try to respond if I see stuff like that, but you know
I just move on, keep going.
Keep going
Senior Producer: 
Alright Amber, what have you got for us today?
Phoenix fasting warming season is spring and
since the 1970s our average spring temperatures
have climbed nearly four degrees Fahrenheit.
Producer: What is the counterargument to people
who say that climate isn’t changing.
If you actually look at the trend of carbon
dioxide being released they’re very well correlated.
Luke’s not a believer.
Who opened it?
No we always have haters.
Again we don’t have say climate change,
global warming, we don’t have to say any
of those things, we just have to say
this is just, this is going to be our new normal – right?
Spring is actually Arizona’s fastest warming season
Average spring temperatures are now are nearly four degrees warmer than they were in the 1970s
When I would say the words “global warming”
or “climate change” it would be a trigger
for a half or more of my audience
to just tune out and not listen to the science anymore
So you remove those two words, and you just
talk about how they’re going to be affected
as things change, and they’re much more
open to listening.
Well chocolate and champagne, two of our favorite
Valentine’s Day things
But the future of these two loves may be in trouble
Rising temperatures, changing rainfall patterns
they’re already affecting
the areas that they grow in
That’s the secret weapon, that’s how you
get people to care about this
It’s important for me to share what I know 
about science
because people need to know what to expect.
It’s a hot and dry place but if it gets
hotter and drier, we’re going to have issues
with this place being habitable
We’re going to be in trouble.
