Behind every order you place online is a real
person called a picker.  They navigate massive
warehouses to find the item you just ordered,
and bring it to place where it is packed and shipped.
With companies like Amazon offering delivery
in as little as an hour, the pressure is on the
pickers to really speed things up.
The pick time in these facilities have gone
from days to hours to minutes.
It’s very hard to have an entire workforce
shift their cadence and even sustain that cadence.
Silicon Valley company Fetch thinks it has
a solution to this problem.
You guessed it, robots.
The first step for us really was to eliminate
the tedious activity.
So they could specialize at the things that
they’re good at and then the tedious task
of going from one side of a 400 square foot
warehouse to the other, that’s given to a robot.
Exactly.
Pickers used to spend several minutes pushing
carts from one side of the warehouse to the other over and over again.
Fetch wants their robots to do those long
runs leaving the picker to fetch more items.
The result is increased warehouse efficiency with orders up as much as 30 percent without adding more pickers.
At Fetch, engineers work in a mock warehouse,
training robots to maneuver about their future homes.
We want to see how efficient they are how they are dealing with each in terms of going around each other, traffic management through the facility.
The robots are able to get around autonomously by using a combination of a laser and a time-of-flight camera
so the robot can adjust to obstacles.
The robot actually does path planning, plans a path through the facility and then navigates along that path
while avoiding obstacles.
This is essentially looking through the robots eyes.
It allows us to see 3D data coming off of
the robot.
You kind of see the shelves and the boxes
around and every kind of nook and cranny there.
RTK Logistics, which serves the semi-conductor
industry, is among Fetch's first customers.
Fetch's robots are designed to work side by
side with people, unlike some robots that
have to be separated from human workers for safety.
Partnering with people to do what the robot
is capable of doing
while making the person
more efficient is really important.
