for maximum protection from paralytic polio, three inoculations, the second given not less than two weeks after the first
A minority of parents believe that the most
life-saving medical advance in history does
more harm than good.
This group has undermined progress against
disease in Europe and the U.S., and health
officials worry about further setbacks, considering
who has endorsed the discredited link between
vaccines and autism.
Two years, two years old.
a child, a beautiful child went to have the
vaccine and came back and a week later got
very very sick and now is autistic.
Here’s the situation…
The vaccine backlash took off in 1998 when
the medical journal the Lancet published what
turned out to be a fraudulent study linking
the measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine to
autism.
The journal retracted the study in 2010, and
UK authorities stripped its author, Andrew
Wakefield, of his medical license.
Preventable diseases are on the rise again
in the U.S. and Europe.
The U.S. was measles-free in 2000.
The number of cases spiked to 667 in 2014
though.
It's worse in Europe, where there were 4,000
measles cases in 2016.
Whooping cough has remained at elevated levels
in both places since 2012, when it killed
20 people in the U.S. and 10 in the U.K.
The choice not to vaccinate doesn’t just
affect individual children.
Since unvaccinated kids often live in geographic
clusters, groups can lose herd immunity.
That's when a community that is so protected
against a particular pathogen that the pathogen
itself dies out in that area.
If communities lose herd immunity, those who
can’t be vaccinated either for medical reasons
or because they are too young become susceptible
to infection.
So do those who are immunized, because no
vaccine is 100% effective.
Now here’s the argument…
In the U.S., states set vaccine requirements
for school attendance.
Many states offer exemptions for parents who
cite religious or personal beliefs that their
children should not be vaccinated.
Some public health specialists support eliminating
these waivers, and in some cases courts have
agreed.
In striking down a religious exemption, Mississippi’s
Supreme Court cited an “overriding and compelling
public interest” in keeping children healthy.
Others worry that making vaccinations more
compulsory for school attendance would just
harden the opposition.
