Hey guys im Tegan and im Sam and we are the Rybka twins welcome back to our channel
guess what guys were back, were back.
were ready to do a rematch.
yep today guys were are doing the ultimant rematch of the big sisters VS little sisters in the extreme yoga challenge
yep we did this like exactly a year ago.
so it is totally on and this time we are winning
umm no we are
so for you guys who don't remember this is Alex. and this is Torah
Sam's with Torah again and im with Alex because were big sisters and were little sisters
so apparently we look like were from Mcdonalds so were team Katchup and were team Musterd
befor we get into the video make sure to subcribe  if you havent already and give it a big thumps up if you liked it.
try and subcribe in 5 seconds 5 4 3 2 1
coment down below if you subcribed in 5 seconds. or if your already subcribed good job.
Rbkay note u guys r awesome
dont for get guys to turn on that grey bell next to the subcribe button so you get nottified every time we upload a new vdeo
and follow us on all our soical medias INCUDING HESE 2!
alright lets do this
music
alright guys first pose
alright next pose
321 go
ok guys we just checked the tape footage and we won
these guys just straitend there legs just befor us
but we were in there we were in there
ok next pose
music
go
were gonna have to check the tape who won we did
ok so alex and teagen acually got in the pose first but alexs arms wearnt strait
so tori did so we get the point
were on two and there on one 
oww guys this is hard for you because tori has short arms 
and 321 go
music
go
omg itrs us thats us
ok you guys have to be on top know
music
we got two plans
go
music
ok we dident get point because tori diden't have her arms straight
go
321 go
wow the hand ill do that
we just looked back on the video and we both got the point
owww alright do that ill do this
321 go
the deciding round ahhhh
we need to win
we catching up
we must win
music
321 goo
music
we won again
ok guys we thought we just did the last pose  but for some reason it diden't record
but we went to double check and they won yes we won
and we were like noo
and then we went to go check to make sure that you did it befor us
and it wasent there so we neally did the ultement rematch on the last round
ok ready ready
321 go
ITS A DRAWW.
ok guys so as you just saw alex and tori  got up there at the same time so we have decided that we will do another round right yeah
music
but we have all the plans tho
so whats the stragey girl well so sam going on the floor shes going to bend her legs and im going to get on her legs grab my foot and shes going to hold my elbows
were ready were going to win
321 go
music
we won the rematch
ok guys thats the end of the challenge we hoped you liked it .
tori and i won but its up to you guys get to choose who won remember it stoped on the last clip but they won the first round then we had the rematch so its kinda like a draw
but we won
go subcribe to A  Dancers Life she edited the video
you guys decide we won we won we mastered it
and we will see you guys next thursday bye guys
