I have to admit that when it comes to food,
I’m a total sucker.
Whether it’s sugar or grease or carbs, pretty
much bring it on!
And I spend a lot of time in Montana, so for
me, that medium rare, grass fed ribeye steak?
Pretty much as good as it gets.
I know.
I don’t do it often and when I do, I gotta
admit I feel a little conflicted.
And that’s for a lot of reasons, including
the planet.
But how big of a problem is what I eat?
I mean, does it really make much of a dent
in something as huge as global warming?
It turns out, what we put on our plates matters
a lot.
About 25 percent of all the global climate
change problems we’re seeing can be attributed
back to the food and the choices that we’re
actually making about what we eat on a daily
basis.
This is greater than all of the cars on the
planet.
In fact, it’s about twice as much global
warming pollution as the cars.
Ben Houlton and Maya Almaraz study the connection
between climate and diet at the University
of California, Davis.
They track how the way we produce food creates
greenhouse gases that contribute to global
warming.
With their data, the team has crunched the
numbers to figure out how much carbon pollution
is produced by different foods and different
diets.
A lot of people feel really helpless when
it comes to climate change, like they can’t
make a difference.
And what our research is showing is that your
personal decisions really can have a big impact.
So, take that grass fed ribeye steak I love.
If you really look at everything that went
into making a single serving of beef, you
end up emitting about 330 grams of carbon.
That’s like driving a car three miles.
Now, if I choose to have chicken instead,
there’s more than a five-fold drop in emissions.
Switch to fish and you see the number go down
even more.
Now, look at veggies.
If I swapped beef out entirely for lentils,
well, I’m down to practically nothing!
So, why does beef and lamb, too, for that
matter - pack such a powerful punch to the
planet?
Livestock accounts for a little over 14 percent
of global greenhouse gas emissions.
If that sort of seems low to you, consider
it’s about equal to transportation.
We’re talking all the cars, trucks, planes,
trains and ships on the planet combined!
This is partly because ruminant animals like
cows and sheep - they’re just gassy!
And the methane they produce is at least 25
times more potent than carbon dioxide.
Plus it takes lot of land, fertilizer and
about a billion tons of grain to feed all
that livestock.
And you could feed 3.5 billion people with
that grain; if we were just directly eating
these grains ourselves, it would eliminate
a lot of the CO2 that is emitted from cattle
production.
So it’s clear that meat has a pretty big
carbon load, but it’s also worth remembering
that not all livestock is raised equally.
In parts of the American West, for instance,
ranchers are working to raise livestock in
ways that actually help restore the land.
And they’re experimenting with ways that
soil and grasslands can be used to keep carbon
pollution out of the air.
But even these sustainable ranchers will really
tell you, we’re probably eating too much
meat.
I know a lot of people who if you don’t
serve them meat for lunch or dinner, they’re
kind of like "well, when is the meat coming out?"
It's to the point now where the U.S. actually
has one of the highest meat footprints per
capita.
So, what about not eating meat at all?
Vegan is the way to go for the least impact
on the planet, but it’s not that much different,
in terms of emissions, than say, a vegetarian
diet.
And the team found that the environmental
impact of the Mediterranean diet is pretty
similar to vegan and vegetarian diets.
It’s a lot less meat-heavy than what Americans
are used to - so, fish and poultry a few times
a week; beef maybe once a month, plenty of
plant-based foods, and of course, loads of
olive oil.
Eliminating like 90 percent of your meat intake
is more important than eliminating all of
your meat.
We don’t all have to be vegan.
We don’t all even have to be vegetarian.
If we can just reduce our meat intake, every
little bit helps.
And if you can bring it down a lot, you can
help the climate a lot.
If we all just switched to a Mediterranean
diet, it could actually solve 15 percent of
global warming pollution by 2050.
If everyone were to move towards it, that
is equivalent to taking somewhere around a
billion cars off of the streets, in terms
of vehicle emissions each year.
So, that kind of a footprint is big-time.
But say you still want more meat than the
Mediterranean diet recommends?
Just cutting down your portion size to the
doctor-recommended 4 ounces can reduce your
emissions by half.
That’s huge!
In fact, the doctors are telling us we’re
eating about twice as much meat as we really
need for a healthy diet.
The good news is, we are listening to our
doctors.
In the last decade, there’s been a 19 percent
drop in the amount of beef we eat.
All these things that you're already being
told are good for you also happen to be good
for the planet.
So what we eat really is a big part of the
climate puzzle.
I mean, we may not all be able to afford an
electric car or putting solar panels on our
house, but we all have to eat every day.
And these choices we make can add up to really
big numbers.
And since meat has a pretty big carbon load,
we need to be thoughtful about how much we
eat.
As for that ribeye steak that I really love,
I am honestly trying to cut back!
Maybe it’s just a smaller piece of steak;
or simply swapping out a meat dish for a veggie
burger.
It may seem like a small thing, but it really
does add up to big impacts.
Hey, so what did you have for dinner last
night?
Find out how your choices are affecting global
warming by taking a quiz at climate.universityofcalifornia.edu
or watch one of our other episodes to discover
what happened when I brought a box of donuts
to MIT.
