Here's a look at it on the satellite picture, and...
Boy, this is not good.
It's exhausting knowing that you work a lifetime to acquire things,
You know, homes and different things of that nature. And then it all can be taken away so easily.
As we're coming on the tenth year anniversary,
talking about all of it, brings back a lot.
Everybody's Katrina is different. There's a lot of similarities, but there's so many different personal stories.
Okay guys, here's the deal in Gulfport.
As we mentioned, we were at 27 feet above sea level. Guess what? That's not high enough.
Basically we are part of the Gulf of Mexico right now.
I've got to ask you a question -- what are the options?
This is the first moment I've started to grasp what Hurricane Katrina has done.
Because everything we know is gone.
And I remember for a second I couldn't breathe. It kind of felt silly, but it was just that overwhelming.
And I remember getting to this one woman who was crying, and she said 'it killed my mother'
And I said 'what do you mean it killed your mother?'
And she said 'our house was full of water and I was holding her hand, and I was holding her hand. And then I couldn't do it anymore.'
An entire ward of this city -- the 9th Ward -- appears to be up to its rooftops in water.
That Monday morning it was dry. The storm had passed. But then, the levees started breaking.
When that water came, it knocked down houses. I mean, prone 'em up.
And water just kept getting higher and higher. It seemed as though water was racing me up the ladder.
As we was walking up the bridge, there were people that I had seen every day. Dead.
We walked one way, they was alive. We walked back, they was dead.
Riding in that truck, we were tired, but no one knew what to say.
And as we turned off I-10 down into Hancock County to work our way down to Bay St. Louis
which was just a little coastal city, it was the most surreal bizarre scene I've seen.
The headlights are on, and people -- just bunches of people -- are walking north along this roadway.
Their clothes are shredded and they all look shell shocked.
Katrina taught me a lot of good things. And a lot of bad things.
It changed my life.
When you're at your home and in your city, that's where you find your normalcy, and none of it was there.
It's not about no money; it's about being treated like a person.
It's hard to explain, it really is.
I guess it's not a physical thing, it's more of a psychological thing.
I lost my house, I lost my friends. You mourn what you lost, but eventually you have to move on.
