Ladies and gentlemen, the first American to
orbit the Earth.
Here's to Flint.
The latest now in Flint, Michigan.
A water crisis there.
No justice, no peace.
At times it seems like the forces pulling
us apart are stronger than the forces binding
us together.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have detected gravitational
waves.
Opioid addiction is now officially an epidemic.
We now lose 100 Americans a day from overdoses
on prescription medicines and heroin.
I went from smoking weed and snorting pain
medication in in my dorm room, to being homeless
and shooting heroin under a bridge.
The British people have voted to leave the
European Union.
This is mass hysteria at the moment.
Those on the losing side of the argument,
myself included, should help to make it work.
Today marks the most deadly shooting in American
history.
Some 50 dead reported in Orlando.
The shooter targeted a gay nightclub he frequented
We've taken a lot of steps forward and something
like this just makes all those steps be erased.
And love is love is love is love is love is
love is love is love cannot be killed or swept
aside.
Rodrigo Duterte was elected president of the
Phillippines in May, on a promises of waging
a "bloody war on drugs."
I'd be happy to slaughter them.
Breaking news out of Turkey where tensions
remain high this morning after a night of
explosions.
President Erdogan called into Turkish television,
using FaceTime and urging citizens to flood
the streets and resist the coup.
More than 10,000 civil servants have now been
fired after the July 15th coup attempt.
The question among terror experts is not will
there be another terror attack, but when?
Please don't tell me that he's gone.
Please officer, please don't tell me that
you just did this to him.
Philando Castile and Alton Sterling were shot
and killed by police within a day of each
other.
Rallies and protests across the country, in
response to the violent scene during the sniper
style takedown of officers in Dallas.
Pray and hope that this never happens in America
again.
The selection must be about bringing our people
together.
And I will have Mexico pay for that wall.
Mark my words.
I'm not gonna pay for that fucking wall.
And just as with our founders, there are no
guarantees.
It truly is up to us.
The WHO today rejected a plea by 150 health
experts who argue that the games risked speeding
up the spread of Zika globally.
The most decorated athlete in Olympic history
is calling it quits by hanging another gold
around his neck.
Millions of people worldwide are hunting for
pokemon everywhere around them.
But it seems there are some places anyway
they can't go.
How sweet it is, after a 108 years the Cubs
win the world series.
The star quarterbacks refusal to stand during
the world anthem.
This country stands for freedom, liberty,
justice for all.
And it's not happening for all right now.
I don't even wait.
And when you're a star, they let you do it.
Whatever you want.
Grab em by the pussy.
And I can't believe that I'm saying that a
candidate for President of the United States
has bragged about sexually assaulting women.
In a stunning upset that reverberated around
the world
Donald Trump won with 306 electoral votes,
even though Hillary Clinton got nearly 2.5
million more popular votes.
This political stuff is nasty and it's tough.
But please, never stop believing that fighting
for what's right is worth it.
Thousands fled Aleppo after government forces
captured large portions of the city from rebel
fighters.
10s of thousands of terrified civilians were
streaming out of eastern Aleppo.
The UN weather agency says 2016 could break
the record for the hottest year since they
started keeping track in the 19th century.
Eventually, history suggests there will be
some doomsday event.
The path this country has taken has never
been a straight line.
We zig and zag.
For many, many thousands of years, people
had looked up and wondered about what was
up there.
The alternative is to become a space-faring
civilization and a multi-planet species.
And we must consider ourselves among the most
fortunate of generations for we have lived
at a time when the dream became a reality.
I hope you would agree that is the right way
to go, yes?
