When someone accuses a police officer of misconduct,
it's often a he said-she said situation. But
video is completely changing that. Ever since
a bystander recorded Rodney King being beaten
by Los Angeles police in 1991, the power has
been in the hands of witnesses, especially
now that so many people have camera phones.
But it's up to chance whether a bystander
captures an interaction on video or not. Most
police departments now have in-vehicle dashboard
cameras, but they vary in how they're used.
Now, there's a rapid rise in the number of
police departments who are testing body cameras,
so that all interactions can be recorded,
not just the ones that take place right in
front of a police car. In some cases, video
evidence can be the key that demonstrates
that a police officer really did commit a
crime. "Can I see your license please?" 
"Get
out of the car! Get out of the car!" .
 "Get on the ground! Get on the ground!"
"I just got my license. You said get my license!"
When police officers aren't conviced, or even
charged, after an episode of misconduct, video
can show how wide the gulf is between what
many people feel is acceptable and what cops are
allowed to do, such as the killiing of John
Crawford for carrying a toy rifle in 
a Walmart. 
 
But bodycams and dashcams are also helpful to police. In fact, video evidence exonerates cops more often
than it convicts them. And some cities have
found that just using cameras puts everyone
on their best behavior. One town in California
found that use-of-force incidents dropped
60% after police started using body cameras.
The next big question is control of video
footage: When cameras get activated, how footage
gets stored, and who's allowed to edit a video
before it gets released. In several cases,
body cameras or dashcams have "malfunctioned"
or gone dark at critical moments, raising
concerns that the footage is being manipulated.
Imagine how that might have affected something
like a recent New Jersey case, where the jury
might have heard this: 
Instead of seeing this:
