Standing at the border between Guatemala
and Mexico.
Up there on the bridge,
there's a normal border crossing with
migration; people stamping passports, but
you go down these wobbly stairs, you
notice that right under the bridge these
guys are trafficking people across the
border, technically illegally.
You can't tell that there's been an immigration
crackdown here, but there has.
And it was the U.S. that paid for it.
These guys are doing it under the noses of immigration
officials who clearly don't care that
much.
You only start to feel this
crackdown when you start moving north,
where you run into a new network of
military infrastructure and checkpoints
meant to stop migrants.
But this crackdown was never meant to keep
Central Americans out of Mexico, it was
meant to keep them out of Texas.
In 2014 the United States sent an influx of
money to Mexico, helping them militarize
and fortify their southern border region.
To understand why, you have to look at
this chart: the red line represents the
number of Mexican migrants apprehended
while they're crossing into the United States
and the green line is for non-Mexican
migrants. Look at 2014: that's when the
number of non-Mexican migrants
outnumbered Mexican migrants for the
very first time. What pushed this number up
were the migrants coming from
Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala. And these people
fleeing from Central America aren't just
looking for jobs, they're running away.
So, there's a war going on in Central America
right now, it's actually not just
one war it's a ton of micro wars,
"Unbelievable violence." "Nearly one homicide an hour".
"Three of the five highest homicide countries in the world:
Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador."
"Carved up the city into warring factions".
Residents of these towns are
at major risk of dying and so people are
fleeing.
While riding with U.S. Border Patrol on the Texas border, I watched them apprehend a 22 year old and
his son as they just made the three-week
journey up through Mexico from Honduras.
These refugees walk into Mexico mostly
hoping to make it to the U.S.
Many come here, to this town called Tapachula, just
north of the border where they can look
for a migrant shelter to lie low and get
support and at this vulnerable point in
their journey, many don't want to show
their face on camera. And there were
these threats just constantly came and
came and came to me and then one day I
just said the hell with this I'm gone.
Mm-hmm. I burned my little Rancho and and
I took off at two o'clock in the morning.
The exodus out of Central America came
to a head in 2014, when the U.S. saw a huge spike in the
number of Central American kids and
teens arriving to the border without a parent.
"It is a huge humanitarian crisis
on the border right now".
"52,000 unaccompanied children have been caught
at the US border with Mexico: double the
number recorded last year". "Children from
Honduras traveling into Guatemala, then
Mexico, crossing the Rio Grande, and just
now arriving in Texas."
As soon as it became clear that this year's migration
to the border was different than in past
years, I directed FEMA to coordinate our
response at the border. Obama declared an
urgent humanitarian situation at the
border.
He discussed it with Mexican
president Peña Nieto.
Peña Nieto walked away from that meeting and
immediately implemented a policy called
"El Programa Frontera Sur", the southern
border program. "And earlier this week
Mexico announced a series of steps that
they're gonna take on their southern
border to help stem the tide".
For Peña Nieto, the plan had two main objectives:
In short, the plan was supposed to make
life better and safer for both migrants
and those living in the border region,
which includes Mexico's most
impoverished state, Chiapas.
This migrant protection plan for the southern border
had been in the works for years, but it
was rushed into implementation
apparently in response to American pressure.
Many of the long-term plans
that were meant to give migrants legal
support and protection fell away. Instead,
the implementation focused almost
entirely on enforcement and security.
"What's easiest to do, I think, is enforcement because
you already have the infrastructure set up.
Like it's harder to create jobs, right,
than it is to hire more immigration
agents to detain people."
Mexico's quick solution to this was to
militarize, to start raiding buses to
start putting up checkpoints, to start
cracking down on Central Americans who
are coming into their country. A perfect
symbolic representation of this are
these huge multi-agency complexes that
they built in order to house the
immigration officials alongside the Army,
and the Marines, and the Federal Police.
Mexico fortified its southern border
region and to help in the effort, the
U.S. sent an influx of money and
equipment, using resources from an
existing security partnership it had
with Mexico, dating back to 2007.
This partnership was originally created to
combat drug trafficking and organized crime.
The money was used here for things
like inspection equipment, k9 teams,
observation towers, training for
immigration enforcement officials,
communication networks to support
enforcement activities, and gear to
collect biometric data like fingerprints
and photos of detained migrants.
In short, the U.S. helped militarize the southern
border region of Mexico.
The U.S. got what it was looking for.
"In part because of strong efforts by Mexico
including at its southern border, we've
seen those numbers reduced back to much
more manageable levels."
Apprehensions on the Mexican side went up and people
arriving to Texas or other parts of the
U.S. border went down, but this was all
temporary. The number jumped back up in
2016, so the crackdown isn't actually
stopping people from getting to the
United States, but it is making their
journey much more dangerous.
Behind me is the train that Central
Americans take to get from here in
southern Mexico, up to the border of the
United States. If it were 2014 this area
would be completely packed with migrants.
Migration officials targeted this train.
They started conducting extensive raids
and the train companies hired guards,
increasing the speeds of the trains and
installing concrete posts and walls to
make it harder for people to jump aboard
and now gangs are a constant threat to
the few travelers that remain.
Here are the main routes that migrants took to
get to the United States: they mainly follow
the train routes. These paths were well
supported with migrant shelters and
clinics and most importantly large
groups of other migrants, making it less
likely that people will be robbed or
assaulted. Migrants often don't know
where their next meal will come from or
where they're gonna sleep each night.
They depend on this network of usually
church-sponsored shelters as they move
north. The 2014 crackdown targeted these
routes, looking for migrants in popular
places like shelters and train stops.
So migrants moving north have shifted into
unfamiliar, unsupported routes that
multiply the dangers that they are
already subject to on this journey.
Pushing these refugees away from well
trodden routes and into the shadows has
made them more vulnerable to assaults by
criminals and gangs in this region.
During this time the U.S. Border Patrol
started putting out public service
announcements, about how dangerous the
journey through Mexico had become.
This, in spite of the fact that U.S. policy
contributed to those risks.
All of the shelter directors I talked to have
noticed an uptick in crimes against
migrants since this crackdown. A study by
dozens of migration organizations in
Mexico found that, of the 5,824
investigations into crimes against
migrants, less than 1% had led to any
sort of sentence.
And many crimes go
unreported altogether. There's not a lot
of trust in the Mexican justice system
for migrants.
Most migrants are now left on their own,
navigating this remote
region where both gangs and corruption-prone
police are looking for ways to
profit off vulnerable migrants.
But perhaps the most egregious offence of the Mexican
state in this crackdown, comes down to
what they didn't do for these people
entering their country. When a Mexican
immigration official detains a migrant,
that officer is required to inform them
that they have the right to ask for
refugee status or asylum if they're
fleeing for their lives. Everyone I
talked to said that isn't happening.
There were 40,000 children who entered
into Mexico in 2016, and these children
aren't looking for jobs, they're not
smuggling drugs, they're looking for protection.
Of the 40,000 that came here,
only 1% applied for asylum.
That's a dangerously low number for a
country that has said that it protects asylum seekers.
Migrants who feel a threat to their lives in their own
country have to fill out an application
and submit it to an agency that has the
power to grant asylum or refugee status
in Mexico. This allows them to avoid
being deported, to stay in the country,
but this agency that's in charge of
processing these applications only had
15 caseworkers dedicated to interviewing
these applicants and while applications
are on pace to be 12 times what they
were in 2013, this group's budget only
grew 5% during the crackdown.
The year the southern border program was
implemented, Mexico detained around a
119,000 Central Americans. It granted refugee status to
only 460 of them, not
even a half a percent. That same year
Mexico started deporting a lot more
Central Americans, so the southern border
program made Mexico a lot better at
detaining and deporting people,  but it
definitely didn't make Mexico a safer
place for refugees like it said it would.
Now let's get one thing straight, Mexico
has the right and the sovereignty to
fortify its borders and to control who's
coming in and out.
That is their right as a sovereign nation.
And some will wonder why is it Mexico's
problem to deal with
you know the problems and challenges of
citizens of another country?
The problem is Mexico has signed all of
the international conventions that
promise that they will take care of
asylum seekers or refugees and give them
the legal protection so that they can feel safe.
A report by the Migration Policy institute found that in 2014,
The U.S. deported just 3 of every 100
unaccompanied children that it
apprehended on the border. Mexico on the
other hand deported 77 for every 100
kids it apprehended. And yet when
thousands of unaccompanied children
arrived at Texas' border in 2014 the U.S.
turned to Mexico to handle the delicate
and difficult work of screening and
protecting these refugees fleeing for
their lives. The U.S. is paying Mexico to
do its dirty work, knowing full well that
doing this will result in a much more
dangerous situation for refugees.
It drove them into the shadows, worsening their vulnerabilities.
And in most cases,
deporting them back to the violent places from which they came.
One of the questions I know I'm gonna get a ton is:
What is the name of this waterfall?
Southern Mexico's full of a lot of very beautiful scenery,
and I got to see a lot of it as I was traipsing around the region, reporting this story.
But this waterfall, it's called El Chiflón and it's in the state of Chiapas in Southern Mexico.
It ended up being one of the most beautiful things I'd ever seen,
in all of my Borders reporting this summer.
Especially once I got the drone up in the air and saw it from above.
El Chiflón, in Chiapas. It's a beautiful place.
