Here’s america.
And here are 100 dots representing 100% of
the population.
At any time, about 30% of the population has
been considered eligible to serve in the military
based on a shifting definition.
But that number has been surprisingly stable.
Here the portion of Americans that served
in the Revolution.
Here’s how many Americans served in the
Civil War.
and World War I.
World War II was our peak, at 17% – over
half of the likely eligible population.
During Vietnam, fewer served.
Today, the portion of Americans who served
in the Global War on Terror, America’s longest
war, mostly in Afghanistan and Iraq, is down
to less than one percent.
So where are we now?
Civilians, and military are simply getting
further apart.
While 76% of Americans over 65 say an immediate
family member served, the same is only true
for 33% of 18-29 year olds.
And military service is becoming concentrated
in fewer families.
79% of service members have an immediate family
member who served.
Fewer of our leaders served than ever before.
And none of the year’s presidential candidates
served.
But having less veterans isn’t, necessarily,
a bad thing.
It’s a direct consequence of ending the
draft, which was a great idea for all sorts
of reasons, from moral objections to involuntary
service, to arguments economists made, like
average skill of soldiers and cost of training.
And the death toll of war has also dropped
around the world, so fewer soldiers are needed.
But, of course, there are consequences.
Veteran populations feel misunderstood and
unappreciated.
Stereotypes of veterans as heroes or ticking
time bomb dominant the media.
And while "Thank you for your service" and
“we support our troops" are everywhere.
For many veterans this feels like a deflection
rather than a real recognition.
Lets face it, most people don't think a whole
lot about the men and women who fight our
wars.
During the 27 years of the draft, the military
was deployed 19 times.
In the years since, it’s been deployed 144
times.
And the burdens of these wars are shouldered
on that ever narrower group of Americans.
While the consequences of our modern war machine
feel ever further from the rest of us.
This video was produced in partnership with
Veterans Coming Home, who are digging deeper
into the story of the military-civilian divide.
Learn more at VeteransComingHome.org.
