Zip, zilch, nil, nada, nothing.
We have a lot of words to describe zero.
A number without which we wouldn’t have
the likes of James Bond
or the code that makes this video play on
YouTube...
It’s a number that came into existence only
1,500 years ago,
a blip in the evolution of humans.
Yet, it’s considered one of the most important
discoveries in our history …
But if you ask a kid under the age of 6 ...
“Arthur, do you know what zero means?”
“Uh…”
“A number?”
“It’s none.”
They might be able to tell you that zero is
nothing,
but they don’t understand that it is a quantity
like other number, a concept that even a tiny
bumblebee can learn.
“There’s nothing there.”
Children understand the natural counting numbers
long before they understand the number zero.
Mom: "Can you show me how to get to zero if you have one cookie?"
“Now how many cookies do you have?”
Andreas Nieder believes that humans must comprehend
four distinct stages of zero to fully understand
the number ...
The first stage is simple: the ability to
notice a stimulus or the lack of one.
When you turn on a light bulb, for example,
your eyes recognize the presence of that light
and send visual information to the brain.
Without light, the neurons don’t do anything.
So in the second stage, our brain has to learn
how to react to nothing.
The third stage is tougher: understanding
that zero is less than one.
And it’s this stage that kids struggle with.
Because even when a toddler can understand
that zero represents something, like the absence
of a cookie, they still don’t understand
that it represents an actual quantity.
In an experiment with four year olds ... researchers
asked the toddlers to pick cards with the
fewest dots, and when they compared a blank
card and a card with one dot, less than half
of the kids got the answer right.
Without understanding this concept, Nieder
says humans can’t use zero as a number,
the fourth and final stage.
Mom: If you had one cookie and you took it
away how many do you have?
Miriam: Two!
Mom: Two?!
But how the brain gets to that point is still
unknown.
So while our own brains may still be a mystery,
researchers are finding answers in some seriously
less complex ones.
The brain of a bee has 100,000 times fewer
neurons than the brain of a human, yet scientists
in Australia were able to teach them that
zero is a quantity less than one.
Scarlett Howard: “One of the things we wanted
to test for was this concept of zero that
we see in these seemingly more advanced animals
like primates and parrots.
And so we did and we got a really interesting
answer.”
In a study similar to the one done with the
young kids, researchers presented bees with
cards showing different numbers of dots.
And the bees were rewarded with sugar water
when they selected the card with the smallest
amount.
After the bee correctly chose the smaller
number 80 percent of the time, the researchers
upped the challenge.
They added blank cards to the test.
Howard: “So the important thing from this
first experiment show us that bees that were
trained to always choose the lower number
in training, regardless of not having seen
an empty set before and never having been
rewarded for it, chose the empty set.”
Bees also showed that they understood zero
as a quantity on the number line, because they more accurately
chose the empty set when comparing it to a
larger number like five or six than when they
compared it to just one.
Howard: “They're more accurate with numbers
that are further apart, which is called “numerical
distance effects.”
And it's something that's defined as being
very important to show that an animal or even
a human has an understanding of number quantity.
The findings of this study suggest the ability
to understand zero may be more widespread
in the animal kingdom than previously thought.
And, it’s possible that in deconstructing
how the bees compute numbers, we could make
better, more efficient computers one day.
Plus, studying the brains of bees and other
animals can help scientists better learn how
humans understand zero, enough to do our algebra
homework — or just look for more cookies.
Mom: “What is nothing?”
Who knew that nothing could this complicated?
Hi, if you want to learn more about how bees
are impacting the food that you eat, make
sure to check out this video from our sister
channel Verge Science.
And thanks for watching.
