Russian hackers attempted to influence the
US presidential election.
A meddling campaign carried out by the Russians,
authorized at the highest levels.
Russian interference in the 2016 presidential
election is now pretty well-documented.
From hacking voter registration rolls...
Russia is behind a cyber attack on a contractor
for Florida's election system...
To leaking stolen DNC emails...
The Russians were responsible for hacking
the DNC.
But perhaps their most ingenious tool is this:
it's a video of a guy watching news coverage
of ISIS taking credit for an explosion at
a chemical plant in Louisiana.
If you're having trouble remembering this
horrifying chemical plant explosion, well
that's because it never happened.
Oh man, this is f***ed up.
So if this totally legit American accent didn't
already tip you off,
this video is a fake.
It's the handiwork (and I'm using that term
loosely here), of a shadowy Russian organization
with ties to the Kremlin called the Internet
Research Agency.
The agency does a lot more than video.
Fake Russian accounts posing as Americans
have released a barrage of social media posts.
The topics of these posts vary, but the goal
is always the same: to spread fear and drive
Americans opinions to the extremes.
Russia wants to destabilize Western democracies.
The Russian effort stands out just in terms
of the financing behind it and the level of
organization that we saw in this campaign.
Thanks to a recent federal inditement, we
now know more than ever about how exactly
Russia has been shaping the opinions of the
American public.
Russians employed by people with ties to the
Kremlin are asked to create convincing social
media accounts that can pass as real Americans.
Every so often, they're instructed to incorporate
a Kremlin-approved message into their posts.
Then, other professional internet trolls at
the agency, sometimes with the aid of bots,
comment on and share that original post.
If the trolls are successful, the messages
promoted in these fake posts will leave the
circle of fake accounts and be shared by actual
Americans.
These operations employ VPNs, that's Virtual
Private Networks, that can mask their computer's
IP address to create the appearance that their
posts originate in the US.
And they even make sure to post during US
daytime hours to make their posts appear more
plausible.
There's ample proof that this scheme occurred
during the election and even as recently as
the Parkland shooting in Florida.
It's not that the Russian government cares
specifically about American gun rights or
ISIS activity in the US.
The point is to create division and fear.
They figure, anything that destabilizes Europe
or the United States redounds to their benefit,
so they understand that our society is very
divided now.
There are divisions based on race, economic
interest as well as political persuasion.
It's actually very easy to pit groups against
one another.
The Russian government originally deployed
internet trolls within Russia.
In 2011, the country was roiled by protests
in response to the election that year, which
was criticized for being fraudulent.
The government reacted by cracking down on
the internet, but also employed internet trolls
to counter the protestors by spreading pro-Kremlin
propaganda.
While Russian trolls were proven to have spread
misinformation during the 2016 election, the
actual effect they had on the election is
very difficult, if not impossible, to prove.
But the idea of a foreign government trying
to drive a wedge between the American public
is extremely worrying.
Twitter has removed nearly 4,000 accounts
found to be operated by Russian trolls.
And Facebook has promised changes to its algorithm
for how it serves up content in your newsfeed,
to help combat the problem.
But these social media companies don't acknowledge
the divisiveness that's homegrown.
It's easy to suspend inauthentic and foreign
social media accounts, but what about when
real Americans are posting about virtually
the same thing?
Too many Americans are getting all their information
from one source, whether it's a liberal, moderate,
or conservative site.
That's dangerous just in and of itself, but
especially dangerous during an era of false
or misleading information.
The most important thing the average news
consumer can do is to rely on a diversity
of sources of information.
So if you're looking for content that shows
off the lighter side of social media, our
sister site Eater has this amazing series
about what it takes to make food go viral.
In general, if you're looking for really cool
food content, Eater has you covered so go
check them out.
