This is biathlon.
A timed ski race where you shoot at rifle
ranges along the course.
It’s awesome, but also kind of odd.
There’s no other sport that combines athleticism
and weaponry the same way.
Although it’s popular in Europe,
most Americans only know it from whatever
James Bond movie that was.
It’s For Your Eyes Only, by the way.
But that’s not the point.
Biathlon isn’t just a trivia answer,
it’s a competitive professional sport with
military roots that stretch back centuries.
And it all started in Norway
with a guy named Oscar.
Oscar Wergeland was a Norwegian military officer
who loved skiing.
In 1865 he wrote a book of ski drills for
his troops.
Before then, members of the Swedish and Norwegian border
patrol had been meeting for contests that
combined skiing with rifle shooting.
But Wergeland’s book turned the mixture
into an official exercise and the idea took off.
Throughout Europe, militaries began building
up their ski troops
and by World War I, soldiers on both sides
were fighting on skis.
After the war, the creation of the Winter
Olympics gave ski troops a new purpose.
In 1924, a demonstration of skiing and shooting
was added to the first ever winter Olympics.
It was called “Military Patrol”
and the participants were soldiers from nations
attending the games.
The Olympic demonstration continued for a couple of
decades,
But outside of the Olympics, ski warfare continued.
In 1939,
Finnish ski troops, fought the Russians in in a World War II
invasion called “The Winter War”.
Finland fights on.
Although they lost the battle, the Finns used
alpine skills, particularly skiing, to inflict
major losses against the Russians.
As World War II evolved, countries on both
sides saw the success of Finland
and started creating propaganda for their
own winter warfare battalions.
The US had its own winter unit,
the 10th Mountain division, which prepared
for conflict in Europe by training on mountains in Colorado
and Washington State.
He learns how to wax his skis.
Three years after the war ended, military
patrol
was demonstrated for the last time at the
1948 Olympics in St. Moritz.
But that didn’t stop amateurs from competing
on their own.
Civilians began hosting competitions that
combined skiing with shooting and that led
to a petition for official Olympic recognition.
In 1960 at Squaw Valley, the sport returned to the Winter Games
as an official event called “biathlon”.
That was the moment biathlon went from being a Norwegian
military drill to a competitive professional
sport.
Although rules and headwear have
changed through the 70s, 80s, and 90s,
modern biathlon is a clear product of its
military origins.
The sport mimics the sharp transition between
physical effort and mental focus experienced
by soldiers in battle.
Biathletes shoot when their heart rate is
extremely high, and their breathing can make
it really difficult to hit five targets in
a row.
But unlike soldiers, the penalty for modern athletes is only
more time or just more skiing.
