A heinous crime has been committed at Vox.
Somebody keeps drinking the single source
Ethiopian yirgacheffe coffee I bring to the
office for myself.
I rounded up five suspects from around the
office and fingerprinted them
to see if I could find a match from a print
I found on my mug.
Is fingerprint analysis reliable enough to
pin somebody to this unspeakable crime, and
more importantly ... uhhhh ... how do you actually do
this?
To help me figure out what the hell I’m
supposed to do I brought in an expert.
My name is Peter Valentin.
I'm an expert in crime scene reconstruction
and forensic science.
A fingerprint is probably the most important
piece of information when we don't have a
known connection between the victim and the
offender.
We have to find something that people leave
at scenes relatively easily and something
that is unique enough that finding it and
identifying what it is will lead us back to
the person.
In order to find a fingerprint investigators
will either use a physical component like
a powder–
So not cocoa powder?
Cool cool cool.
Or a series of chemicals that make a print
visible on a surface.
Our fingerprints have ridges and furrows that
align to create unique, recognizable patterns.
There is a what's called a loop right here,
you have ridges that are coming into the pattern
and then coming back out.
Here's another loop right here.
There's arches,
and there's whorls and those those three categories
alone comprise at least 95 percent of the
fingerprints that are in the database.
Everyone’s fingerprints have unique features
that differentiate them from everyone else’s.
For instance this ridge splits into two here
and this ridge has a break in it.
These patterns remain the same throughout
a person's lifetime, which makes them a
powerful identification tool.
My fingerprint is pretty easy to spot.
The pattern looks like a 1998 Chrysler Sebring.
Investigators rely on the characteristics
of a print to find a match using a method
called ACE-V.
First they analyze the print and the surface
it's on to see if it's viable for examination.
This one’s great.
This one, not so much.
Then, they take the suitable print and compare
it against known fingerprints looking for
points of similarities and differences.
For example both these patterns are whorls
and bifurcate right here.
Investigators look at these traits and try
to gauge if there’s enough points of comparison
to declare it a match.
Finally, a qualified peer reviews their conclusion
to verify the match.
After using high tech software to analyze
the prints from my mug – I’m kidding this
is just some stock footage I downloaded.
I think I finally found a match.
But, ok, even when it’s done by professionals...
how reliable is fingerprint analysis?
It's a useful tool that obviously has
value, but I think it's problematic to overstate
its value especially in a criminal justice
context.
One accuracy study found that examiners made
false positive identifications in .1% of cases.
Which means identifying a print as a match
when it’s not.
That doesn’t sound too bad... unless you
happen to be one of those false positives.
Brandon Mayfield, a lawyer from Oregon, was
one of those unlucky few.
He was falsely accused of the 2004 Madrid
train bombing because the FBI made a false
positive match with a partial print found
at the scene.
Mayfield seemed like a good suspect to investigators
because he had recently converted to Islam
and was the lawyer for a man who attempted
to join the Taliban, which in the wake of
9/11 were all red flags for the FBI.
There was a bias that existed because once
they tentatively identified the unknown fingerprint
as belonging to this individual who he was
and what his background was made the identification
seem stronger than it actually was.
He didn't have a valid passport.
So it's a little implausible on the face of
it that he was handling a bag of detonators
in Spain.
Fingerprinting was so powerful that it just
sort of it trumped everything else.
Mayfield was even given his own analyst who
examined the prints, and even they agreed
that it was a match.
That's an interesting thing about bias
because, you know, everybody's assumption
is that the experts are biased toward the
side that they're working for.
Here was a guy who was working for Mayfield
and yet he corroborated the evidence against
him which turned out to be incorrect.
The FBI released a 330-page report about where
their analysts went wrong, and it’s pretty
much a case study in a lot of the potential
downfalls of fingerprinting.
They cited things such as,
ignoring differences between the prints, lack
of independent verification, the pressure
of working on a high profile terrorism investigation,
and letting bias about the suspect affect
their analysis.
Their report summed it up by saying “in
any human endeavor, there is a potential for
error.”
You know I would suggest learning from history
and realizing that none of these things are
going to be error free.
So there's going to be mistakes and errors and
screw ups.
But also evidence is inherently probabilistic.
So even though it’s not a perfect tool,
until a more reliable technology emerges,
law enforcement will continue to utilize fingerprint
analysis.
And I won’t ever be fully certain of who
stole my coffee.
Until I catch him on this new surveillance
camera that I installed.
