Would you characterize yourself as pro-life,
pro-choice, both, or neither?
Uh...Both?
Can you explain that?
I wouldn't, but I can't choose for other people.
That's kind of what we are as America, is
you know, letting people have their freedom.
I'm Christian, so I'm what do you call it
-- pro-life. It's a life you're taking. It's
really considered murder. The baby has a fetal
heartbeat. The baby's alive. So I think when
a baby gets a heartbeat, that should be the
cut off point. That's just my stance. I'm
not the kind of guy -- like, I want everyone
to follow my stance. All these laws that are
making it more difficult for women to get
an abortion, I think that's crazy.
They should have all legal rights to have
an abortion. It's our own rights. It's freedom.
That's a human being's body so I think they
have a right to have control over they body.
I think in situations where the woman had
– where it can be proved that the woman
had control over the situation, they should
not be allowed to abort the baby because they
were part of that conscious decision. I would
characaterize myself as pro-life.
I think that by making it illegal, it makes
it more dangerous for women in the world.
I identify as pro-choice.
I was brought up Catholic. If you're a Christian,
then, you would let people do what they wanna do,
you would be able to understand. I would
say pro-choice.
If I had to pick, I would say that I'm....
pro-choice? But personally I'm more on a...
somewhere in the middle.
I don't want to discuss anything like that.
I don't want to go there.
Probably pro-life.
This life that you're taking
out of the world probably could be something
better, or more famous, or bigger than you
could ever even imagine. This is probably
the next president. But if you don't allow
them to get an abortion, you best believe
they're going to find a way to abort it themselves.
I've seen it.
It should be illegal but, it's a fifty-fifty
on that.
It really is. Like there's some good
points, there's some pros and cons.
