he's dudes here like the counterfeit
handbag mafia my goal is to always make
it through here without getting murdered
day yeah I mean sorry
I have my snapchat set so anybody can
send me snaps like people I don't know
strangers and stuff and the snap that I
get the most are from people and it just
says bored or it's like a selfie of them
and they're like bored nothing to do how
are this many people that have all this
time and no way to occupy it
you could build a city with all the free
time that people spend sitting around
being bored sending me snaps of
themselves sitting around being bored
mix it up the format a little bit
today's vlog is gonna be about one theme
one thing only first I gotta make some
props you read what that says that is a
fluorescent light that hangs above my
office door that says work harder it
also says the same thing tattooed on my
wrist just in case I forget
so today's vlog is about time management
and productivity I really want to get
into it
Seneca said it's not that we have a
short time to live but that we waste a
lot of it Thank You Ryan for turning me
on to that quote and that pretty much
sums it up right now it's go time for me
I want to maximize every waking second
I'm never going to get any younger
but right now I'm completely healthy I'm
full of energy and who knows how long
this will last I doubt it's going to be
like that when I'm 50 or 60 years old so
I want to do it now with that I wanted
to share a little bit of my thinking
behind that like a little bit of the
logic and then the mechanics behind
maximizing or my consideration for
really maximizing every day and I know
that this is like this is this is crazy
person talk but the truth is the only
time I really get bummed out or
depressed is is what I'm not being
productive is when I'm not accomplishing
or doing or contributing in any way
nothing makes me less happy than
relaxation and sitting around with
nothing to do what I'm doing here with
the Domino's this paper tape measure
this overhead shot is I'm going to do an
animation of of my day what I think of
as a pretty productive day and how I
sort of manage my time
the dominoes are broken into six
different color categories for the tape
first is white and that is free time
next up is black black is sleep red is
work orange is exercise and blue Blues
family time last is purple and purple is
like fun or partying or playing video
games that's purple
here are your 24 hours this is kind of
how my day looks so starting at 7 a.m. I
like to get in 1 to 3 hours of exercise
immediately heading into work at 10 a.m.
6 7 ok then I get home at 7 p.m. and
that's what I do family time so putting
the baby to bed you know stuff like that
that usually goes till about 9:00 or
10:00 p.m. so then starting at 10:00
p.m. when Candice goes to bed that's
usually when I edit this vlog so from 10
p.m. until 1 a.m.
I'm back at work so I 1 a.m. I go to bed
and that's when I sleep and I sleep from
1 a.m. usually till about 5 a.m. and
then I get up at 6:00 and from 6 to 7 is
when I do email so then that's sneaking
in one more hour of work
so this is my day this is what almost
every day looks like there's a slight
shift in the weekend this is like a
pretty grueling schedule and the reason
why it looks like this is this worked
I'm here from 10:00 a.m. till 7:00 p.m.
my workday it's fairly typical workday
this is the time spent working on my new
company this is the time I've spent
focusing on building this business I
pull some minutes out of there to try to
catch up shooting this vlog but for the
most part my day time my day job is a
full-time 50 plus hours a week focus on
my new company so then where do I make
this vlog where do I work on this vlog I
had to steal some hours here from sleep
these hours otherwise from 10:00 p.m. to
1:00 a.m. would be sleep from 6 a.m.
till 7 a.m. that would be sleep time is
the most precious resource for me right
now in life this is the most valuable
thing I have and that's why I'm so
protective of my time why I'm so
emphatic about all this is that I think
life is substantiated by whatever impact
or whatever contribution you can make
while you're alive the finish line is
the same for everyone we're all ending
up in the same place but while we're
here what what contribution can you make
work and building things and making
things and doing things and spending
time with your family those are the ways
that I feel I'm contributing that I'm
accomplishing something so why wouldn't
I want to maximize my time as
efficiently as possible to be as
effective as I can with that and that is
why I say free time is the enemy of
progress because free time sitting
around is not doing and that's why I try
to omit that entirely from my life
last one out of the office today
