tomorrow marks 50 years since the
assassination of dr. Martin Luther King
jr. in Memphis in this iconic photo look
at this was taken moments after King was
shot as he stoned the balcony the
Lorraine Motel April 4th 1968 five
decades later a woman in this picture is
speaking out for the first time my
colleague Craig Melvin sat down with her
and joins us now with really an
incredible and incredibly emotional
story Craig Wright yeah it was Hallie
good to see her she was an eyewitness to
history she's kept silent all these
years
the dark day the deeply personal deeply
painful day it was for her we met at the
Civil Rights Museum in Memphis which
actually stands on the ground of the
Lorraine Motel the site of dr. King's
assassination Ford has stood here before
whereas dr. King in front of the 306
it's right up there yeah this picture
taken in 1968 is the photo the world
would come to know on the balcony of the
fame Lorraine Motel three people point
toward the sound of a gunshot dr. Martin
Luther King jr. lays dying at their feet
a small crowd can be seen gathered below
where are you in this picture that young
woman in white is Mary Ellen frozen in
time April 4th 1968 it's a day she's
only talked about with the closest of
family members until now were you having
a conversation with anyone no
I was just standing out like us in shock
witness number 43 then Mary Eleanor
would this Memphis police report lists
her as female collared 21 and employed
at the Lorraine as a waitress and cook
what was it like working here I loved it
I did I really loved it Walter and
Laurie Bailey owned the motel in the
segregated south it was a safe place to
stay for prominent black musicians like
BB King and Aretha Franklin who's your
favorite
cuz he was always here and I got to see
him at about the most famous guest of
all dr. King drawn to Memphis by
striking sanitation workers must be able
to be run around get this room straight
milk us dr. King is coming back t miss
Clara
Mary Ellen caught glimpses of King as he
came in with from the motel at one point
delivering food to him and other civil
rights leaders hamburgers all of me I
was when I took the tray and I set it on
the table he was laying on the bed
dr. King yeah smoking a cigarette I see
smoke on the evening of April 4th Mary
Ellen was cooking in the kitchen at
first I thought it was firecrackers you
know Snoopy was shooting off
firecrackers
we all ran outside to see what was going
on and he was laying on the back of me
and I'm stand-in there I'm just down
found me you know just shot like what
just happen
it's don't happen here okay when you
keep something bottled up for a
half-century something finally sharing
it can be overwhelming after all these
years you still get emotional yes I
guess cuz I never even talked about it
because I do I get so emotional people
saying he's just yelling just yelling
you know they shot dr. King they shot
dr. King somebody shot back to King it
that's all you could hear Miss Mary
Ellen did you know when you saw him
immediately that he was dead no no we
didn't think he was done with that you
didn't know
why not Martin Luther King jr. was
killed tonight in Memphis Tennessee
Mary Ellen stayed at the motel for three
days after dr. King was killed as the
country spotlight turned to the Lorraine
we just plugged up the lines because we
kept getting calls from reporters even
the payphone on the outside
did dr. King decide to dr. King decide
I'll show forever beating standing and
the blurry shadows of history
Larry Ellen chooses to remember a
different moment with the man that
inspired so many they never really
stands out to me the most sinned all
these people sitting on the brick wall
waiting to get a glimpse of Doctor Who
when people knew he was going to be here
at the hotel
Hallie Mary Ellen moved to Lansing
Michigan just a few months after dr.
King was killed in one of the things
that was most striking about all of this
for me is as you know we live in a time
where there are so many people who are
trying to insert themselves into history
into events and here's a woman who would
have been perfectly happy not having
anyone know that she was there that
faithful day in fact her own brother
didn't know that she was even in the
picture until four years ago it must
have been incredible to sit and talk
with her Craig and obviously incredibly
emotional as well it was it was indeed
my friend hey there I'm Chris Hayes from
MSNBC thanks for watching MSNBC on
youtube if you want to keep up to date
with the videos we're putting out you
can click subscribe just below me or
click over on this list to see lots of
other great videos
