Hey guys
Jouelzy's back!
Clink…clink…clink…claaa…
It’s my 33rd PopSnark, thirty three like Jesus,
just don’t crucify me for being gone so long.
Let’s get into this...
grab yo drank,
I have my fav
of course, we can discuss everything
from the low brow to the highbrow, is your eyebrows on fleek?
Definitely thumbs this video
and comment along if you would like to see
#PopSnark be a more regular occurrence.
Cheers girl!
Are you wondering why this glorious
uh...gele
it's because I am rocking my aso ebi
I paid very good monies for but
was unable to wear because I was 419'd
and unable to make it to Lagos for the traditional engagement.
but I did attend my beautiful soror Eni's
white wedding in Accra.
Definitely reminded me that I needed to marry wealth and uh...
nah really it was an amazing time,
it was the bomb.com.
Beautiful wedding...
and Eni exclaimed to me that she's a big fan of #PopSnark.
So in ode to Eni
Oh child, I came back from Ghana
and all the YouTube drama was popping off.
Them thangs ain’t really my tastes anyways,
but just a friendly reminder that
no one has established a successful YouTube channel
off of strictly talking about negative gossip.
You see ForHarriet & Necole Bitchie has everyone
scrambling to be like
"I amplify inspiration, even if I stalk folks mentions, likes and timelines from 5 years ago."
Heh...
Another year, no slave movies,
no mammies, no sniffling single mothers ,
no stolen fried chicken, or verbose gangsters,
and so no Black folks or people of color were nominated
for Oscars this year.
*surprise!*
No…no one was surprised…
exhaustively disgusted, yes
but #OscarsSoWhite was
a THING last year and this
wasn’t something we wanted to put into syndication.
Here we are anyway where Adsense is
fueled by Black anger
and all the ignorant white folks of the Academy are getting headlines.
Click, cha-ching, click…
I haven’t watched a whole Oscars in years.
I care nothing…
because the truth is actors aren’t the only
sector that needs to diversify.
Talent agents, producers, directors,
aaaannnd anyways Janet Hubert
already came through with the petty,
to make this conversation way more interesting
than some dame thinking that black people have it easier.
Look Janet, you wasn't girl
but you was bitter, therefore making it
hard to side with you
I watched Jada's video only because
Janet made me interested
Back to the melinated Aunt Viv
Something happened around '94 that
ended up with a quick exit of
Janet from the Fresh Prince of Bel Air
and Hubert has been going strong with a 22 year grudge
against Will Smith.
Though she isn't slandering Quincy Jones
who was executive producer of the show.
And definitely would have a had a hand
in the firing of Janet Hubert from the show.
I mean...it was his production company that
produced the Fresh Prince of Bel Air. But, ok sis...
And while Janet did clock some tease as the kids say today.
She couldn't' let go of mentioning something that
happened while on the cast of a
show that she left
22 years ago.
Where Will Smith would not support her in getting a raise.
I mean...GIRL...
LET
IT
GO!
Kills any argument you have because it's stewed
in bitterness and negativity.
Yes the Smiths have a major production company.
It would be nice to see Overbrook do something more
than land Devon Franklin, who use to be Will Smith's personal assistant, Megan Good.
But, I mean, they did give us Love & Basketball.
So...
Cheers to that!
Daniel Holtzclaw, a cop in Oklahoma City
was sentenced to 263 years in prison
on multiple counts of
rape, oral sodomy and sexual battery.
Targeting poor Black women with low level criminal records.
