Hey guys! Jouelzy here, live from Accra, Ghana.
Hence why you might hear some of the background noice
and the church service that's happening on a
Saturday afternoon at 4 p.m.
so yes, I am still in Ghana. I am here until January 6th.
For those who have inquired about me selling
some African print wears, I have obliged.
And I have a quick sale happening at
accrawears.bigcartel.com
go 'head and get you a piece.
Now, I have not done
a proper #SmartBrownGirl video
in a clean minute.
and I felt that it was my duty to come back to the #SmartBrownGirls and engage you guys
in a very pivotal discussion that needs to happen.
So this past week on my Facebook feed
there's been an article that's circulating around with kind of mixed opinions
and very interesting discussion that's been happening.
and I thought this is the perfect topic to talk about with my #SmartBrownGirls
ArtParasite posted an article submitted anonymously by a young lady entitled...
THE UGLY SIDE OF BEING A SINGLE, ATTRACTIVE AND AVAILABLE HETEROSEXUAL WOMAN,
Detailing her sexual mistreatment
where she has gone into relationships and
situation as a consenting
in a sometimes casual sexual relationship
and had her boundaries
or body...
or just...
a whole lot to me that just sounded like sexual assault and sometimes rape, but to her...
felt like were men being too aggressive and just 
being dicks
I gu...ugh...let's talk about this
The ugly side to being attractive, single and available is not rape.
This is very important to address because we live in a world where
Steve Harvey has built the bulk of his career and is now slanging bacon off
of putting the onus of a relationship entirely on to a woman's shoulders.
Where the bad behavior of men
is acknowledged as a problem that women
have to solve.
And we need to firmly address what rape is.
And even if you are consenting to casual sex
because you're an adult
who has rights to your own body
and exploring being a sexual being...
That you are still allowed to have boundaries.
Firm boundaries that protect your body.
Casual sex is not code for...
"Easy"
"whore"
rape or let me do what I want to do with her even when she tells me no.
Rape culture is so ingrained into the patriarchy of our society,
that casual sex, for women, is often pushed into the dark and unsavory space,
that allows women to be victim-blamed.
If you have not read the article, please stop and read it here.
I've linked it in the "i" that should drop down right above and the description box below.
There’s a few incidents, in the article, that I can relate to.
Like a guy refusing to put a condom on and pushing himself inside of you.
Men attempting to forcefully push your head down, or shoving their whole entire dick in your
face because you're obliged to give them head.
I come from the firm school of saying "No".
Hell to the no. Fuck your feelings, no.
And I’ve still been caught in struggles where men don’t understand the word "No".
What was so apparent in this article was that this young lady had no boundaries to begin with,
further pushing her out in the cold.
When a “lover” who shows up at your door with TWO other men,
because you “get to have 3 guys at once.”
You spend hours with them haggling you while you say no?
How many different ways?
Let’s be clear, this is not victim-blaming.
But we need to have this discussion,
to empower young women...
older women...
all women
that it’s okay to have boundaries that keep you safe
even when they make others uncomfortable.
At no point should your obligation
to keeping the peace come at the cost
of violence against your own body.
We have all been there,
where we have been uncomfortable and said nothing,
because we didn't want to
change the mood...
we don't want to ruin the night
we really like this person
and for some reason we thought
being uncomfortable would make us keep on liking them...
even though in reality, in non-likeness, when we have our common sense...
and remember that if a person likes us
then they should respect us.
But somehow we're in these moments
where we're just willing to be disrespected.
in order to keep up someone
else's comfort.
We've done it.
When it comes to sexual assault and rape,
we are so trained
that our first reaction is to immediately think what did I do to get myself here?
How did I cause this to happen?
We immediately blame ourselves
for the violence that happens to us perpetuated by others,
that we do everything but set boundaries
to keep from seeing it as sexual assault or rape.
The author closes out with...
“I’ve never been raped,
and there's a few nights I don’t remember,
but I’ve been coerced time after time and time again.”
Dear Lord, Love. A few examples she gave actually were rape.
And don’t disvalue how hard it is to get a man off top of you when he is inside of you.
No matter how skinny or small he seems in real life.
At the point when you're attempting to get him off of you
and he's exerting power
to remain on top and inside of you
you have crossed over
the area of assault and rape.
At this point there is no
happy moment to save
because my no means no.
so f*ck him and his feelings
and be as aggressive as you need to be
to get him up and off of you.
Be as loud and scream and say the word rape if you need to.
Whether is a casual sex, a lover, a long time friend...
a husband or a boyfriend
You as a woman and a man are allowed to consent to sex
and then stop during it.
How innocently asking for a break,
to pee, to get up, to take a break
to let someone know that you're in pain, you're uncomfortable...
you're body doesn't feel good in this moment.
To just stop because it’s overwhelming, it hurts,
it’s your damn body and you want to stop...
Can so quickly turn into a moment,
where your body is not yours
because society is teaching men
that women’s bodies deserve no respect.
This is not about not participating in casual sex.
Because you can save yourself,
be as a pure as white doves and white cotton bed sheets,
and still find yourself in this position,
because you weren't taught
that you have full rights over your body.
Define what boundaries you need
how you want your body to be approached and
and always understand
that when your "no" is not heard
you have crossed over to
sexual assault and rape.
Check out my
book
"Send It On" a collection of essays that
highlight some of what
I discussed in this video.
And you can also watch my video and read my blog post
about the "Aftermath of Being a Victim of Rape".
you can click on either
the "i"s that drop down here which have both links
and as always it will linked in the Description box down below.
Thanks for watching!
I encourage you to join the #SmartBrownGirl discussion
and I will have a blog post posted in...the "i"! 
and description box down below.
to keep it going
and encouraging #SmartBrownGirls to own the rights to their body
Nobody can tell you what
to do with your being.
No matter what situation you are in....
how much or little clothing you
have on...
someone always needs to respect your rights and your words.
Deuces #SmartBrownGirls!
