Ohhhh boy
Where do we even begin?
Well let’s begin with I’m Jouelzy, head
Smart Brown Girl in charge and go ahead and
thumbs up because whether you like it, love
it or don’t agree at all, you’re still
engaged in a critical dialogue and that’s
what we are here for. And subscribe if you
new new…
Button down below, hit the bell for notifications.
Last week Azealia Banks did an interview with
the Breakfast Club. About half way thru, DJ
Envy asked her about earlier comments she
had made bout Cardi calling her and I quote:
: Did you call Cardi B, uh uh what
was it, an untalented rat?
: I did
: *laughing* why? Now was this out
of nowhere? Did she start?
: *heavy sigh*
: Out of nowhere, oh my goodness...
: No it's not out of no where
And thus begin a roughly two minute discussion
on how Azealia believes that Cardi has privilege
most Black women don’t, and it's bringing
down...idk I mean I guess the movement. Maybe
you know, if we generalize basically what
she was saying.
And hold up! Before y’all even get your
tweedle fingers together to type out the question:
who is Azealia Banks, (girl I see y’all
gathering the palm tree leaves to throw some
shade here). Azealia is a Black woman rapper
who is popular in the house music scene. I
do like her music alot. What I think of Azealia
as a person is that she can be mean, rude
and nasty and I’m not talking about this
interview but to acknowledge what she’s
said and done in the past particularly on
Twitter. And her recent body shaming...like
sis how we talking about black woman empowerment
dohhhh, that is not okay. AZ got some new
titties and was talking about another woman’s
natural body. I can tell you, I can tell sis
you love them new biddies. I see they perky,
they sitting up right, you ain't gotta wear
no bra no more, you eh eh eh out here in the
streets. But body shaming ain’t ever it.
And when I look at all the things I don’t
really agree with her on, I just really want
her to understand her platform and what fame
now means for her. That talking shit as she's
used to with her friends, she gotta keep that
in the group chat. There is no being subtle
or shady on IG Stories or Twitter without
people knowing who you are talking about and
it becoming an even bigger problem when you
can’t back out of what you said. She’s
apologized for the anti-gay, xenophobic statements
and coming for Skai Jackson, so the more recent
hiccups, are generally over things that probably
sound good in her head well as I imagine it,
they probably sound good in her head but she
doesn’t realize until she says it outloud
that she’s being rude or mean. Because we
have those moments, maybe not as harsh or
frequently as Azealia but you know I'm saying,
we been thru it. And if you've ever dated
a Gemini and I dated one or two or three and
done a storytime about at least one. A regular...a
a regular occurrence is did you really just
say that to me?? Like that really just come
out your mouth?
She’s the friend who makes you think and
you’ll tell her personal things cause I’m
sure talking thru complex or just having like
a critical dialogue and discussion with her
can be fun and interesting and she’s not
necessarily saying anything unfactual but
her blurting out what you told her to other
people to the public never helps the situation.
It’s like yooo why you have to say that
out loud, that was between us. Like I know
I said that but I didn't need you to go repeat
it.
So with regard to her comments on Cardi. Where
I do take issue is I personally do not think
that being dumb is a voluntary act, therefore
I do not believe anyone is dumb unless they
put effort into being so. It’s a conscious
effort and everyone has the capability of
being intelligent though the way we express
our intelligence varies. Yup, yup. Calling
Cardi dumb or illiterate counters Azealia’s
argument about the expectations held against
identifiably Black women versus Cardi. Because
she's referencing Cardi’s manner of speech
and her grammar. Black women are sidelined
for the same things every day. When you take
a dig at that you’re setting the bar of
intelligence based on white supremacy. Not
cool. And I do believe this is what triggered
Cardi.
I was surprised to see Cardi so amped to respond
to of all people and all the things said about
her - this Azealia interview really got under
her skin. But in her GQ interview done by
Caity Weaver, Cardi out loud mentions that
she’s insecure about the way she pronounces
words and she takes alot of time in the studio
to make sure she's pronouncing correctly in
the studio. And how because of that people
perceive her as less than. It is an insecurity
of hers. Now I personally have a wee little
bit of internet notoriety and with that comes
people who invest in following me simply because
they despise me. It’s wild but most negative
things said about me don’t really hurt me,
but whenever someone by chance hits on something
that I’m already insecure about, no matter
how untrue or invalid it is, it's like poking
a bear with my feelings. I be like dag! Cardi
already insecure about her pronunciation so
Azealia triggered her, but I won’t call
it bullying because I’ve seen Azealia bully
and that two minutes of her interview, dat
that wasn’t it.
Centering this around an individual vs the
system is unfair and while, yes, Cardi has
privilege she doesn’t deserve to have this
put on her back. Cardi is successful, yea
by nature of being herself and an entire system
of people responding to that by giving her
a chance and putting her own. From us an audience
and fans to the male dominate urban music
industry...this is the same issue I took with
the Bruno Mars and cultural appropriation
conversation. Centering racial inequalities
around a person who themselves is not the
bigot, allows the systems and structures that
uphold this to go unchecked. Even how Azealia’s
comments became this bigger fallout shows
these same systems and structures at play
with how quickly this became simply nothing
more than a Cardi vs. Azealia thing and fans
just having too much fun attacking both sides.
We never get to the actual conversation. Cardi
herself is not offensive, and on some levels
I believe she is aware of her privilege. Azealia
ain’t bitter but they’ve both likely ran
up against the same music execs and I promise
you the way AZ as a darker skinned Black woman
was talked to versus Cardi -- was likely vastly
different. And as someone who formerly worked
in the industry...GIRL! Let me tell you something
as basic as the way I wore my hair out. Life
if I wore my natural hair out, the way Black
men who talk down to me and degrade me versus
if I was done up like this, and presented
a certain way. You know it's still not respectful
at the end of the day because they sexualize
you. There's a lot of patriarchy and misogyny
that exists in the industry. But the way that
you can navigate that and kind of say, that
all right I know that these men ain't ish.
I’m sure people came at Cardi sideways too.
But consider how quick we are to call darkskin
women bitter, angry, dirty, nasty and someone
more racially ambiguous is usually chided
as too pretty or cute to be like that.
If Azealia could just be more compassionate
I think her points would be read as much more
salient. Because I don’t believe that an
identifiably Black woman could get away with
what Cardi does. CC: Fantasia Barrino. CC:
the young girl who was a friend of Trayvon
Martin’s that testified during George Zimmerman’s
trial. You know the jokes made about Fantasia's
literacy and the way she talks. The comments
that were made about that young girl, her
pattern of speech and the way she dressed
and the way she looked and her being too hood,
when she got up there and testified against
Zimmerman. The closest thing we have to Cardi
is maybe Tiffany Pollard, New York from Flavor
of Love but the major difference is that Cardi
is respected and often held as empowering.
You know they both get meme'd I guess, but
we look to Cardi as like a geniune celebrity
and talent and we look to Tiffany as like
a more of like a B list, like reality star.
Even though technically aren't they the same
but who do we respect more? And I mean, ok
Tiffany Haddish, but even with her I see so
much push back and respectability politics
pushed on to her. Most Black women who act
similarly are not getting label or even production
company support and don’t let her have the
nerve to be someone’s fourth baby momma
cause we societally are not calling that relationship
goals, promoting a gang without being severely
chastised. Publicly out loud acknowledging
that they do not write their raps but they
still wealthy. You know how we would and how
we actually do drag Black women for the same
sort of sins. That we say "Oh I love Cardi
for" I’m not, at least I'm trying not to
putting this on Cardi,well the gang thing
yeeaaaaaah sis we need to call you out on
that. But I want us to consider the role we
play in this and the need to check the label
execs who keep the lightskin privilege in
the music industry churning. I really want
to make a comment abt Jorj...but uh you know
that is so unnecessary that's not what this
is about. Yeah girl...mhhmmm...don't do it.
I’ll do this as a whole separate video,
it'll be up later this week actually. But
to quickly address is Cardi B Black, I always
say I don’t need her to be, because then
we have to, as we are complicatedly now, have
this conversation about the privilege she
encompasses, because folks usually want to
tag her as Black to say she’s uplifting
or empowering Black women and I’m like sis---let’s
not front like we love or respect Black women
like this when they have a bit more color,
a bit more kink or a bit more nostrils. But
really I don’t want to have this argument
because the power of language is not on our
side. I do NOT want the comments to delve
into whether are not we perceive Cardi as
Black on this video. Okaaay! Race is a tricky
messy thing in the American context and think
about how unified we could be if we had the
language to discuss the nuances of our racial
identity in this imperalisitic system. Bruh!
So the conversations around ethnic diversity
and Black people not being monolithic, race
as a social construct, phenotyping, colorism,
lightskin privilege, xenophobia we don’t
have the language to productively discuss
in a far reaching and truly impactful way
so when any of these conversations are sparked
with the general masses they quickly devolve
into divisive attacks.
Even this argument that Azealia brought about.
Iy highlights how the power of language suits
white supremacy because the white man sets
the standard for the words we deem as intellectual.
Am I making sense here?
The long and the short of it, is Cardi B has
a privilege -- we don’t necessarily have
the language to term that privilege.But she
has a privilege that is rarely extended to
identifiably Black women. The privilege is
not her fault. Azealia referencing Beyonce
and Solange was an interesting hot take. I
don't know if that really stuck with greater
point she was making but it was interesting.
We do negatively chastise Black women for
being too hood, for not speaking right, for
being baby momma’s, for being members of
gangs, for not being educated and not the
first wife. We definitely don’t respect
them, follow them, or make stars of them.
So I'm not trying to throw this and I don't
want you to throw this in Cardi’s face though
because we are the same ones who made her
a star.
